The invention relates to a picking unit for corn or the like for a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine. The invention furthermore relates to a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine and to a harvesting machine, in particular a combine-harvester.The picking unit for corn or the like comprises a picking gap on which two counter-rotating draw-in rollers are arranged.Such picking unit is known from DE 299 09 358 U1.It is the object of the invention to improve the chopping effect in a picking unit of the type mentioned above.According to the invention, this object is solved by the features of claim 1. The picking gap extends in horizontal direction or in approximately horizontal direction with an inclination from the bottom front to the top rear. It extends in direction of the direction of movement of the harvesting machine, which in particular can be a combine-harvester. The picking unit is arranged in front of the harvesting machine in direction of movement.At the picking gap two counter-rotating draw-in rollers are arranged. The draw-in rollers are located on both sides of the picking gap. They extend substantially parallel to the picking gap and at a distance from each other. The draw-in rollers are located below the picking gap.The picking unit can comprise further components. In particular, it can comprise rotating cutting knives. The cutting knives rotate about a vertically or substantially vertically extending axis, i.e. in a horizontal or substantially horizontal plane. The cutting knives rotating in this way form a horizontal chopper. They are located below the draw-in rollers.The picking unit furthermore can include draw-in chains. The draw-in chains are arranged on both sides of the picking gap. They are located above the picking gap. These are counter-rotating chains which rotate in a substantially horizontal plane extending parallel to the picking gap. On the draw-in chains carriers are provided, which protrude into the region above the picking gap and there are moving from front to rear.The picking unit also can include further rotating cutting knives, which rotate about a horizontally or substantially horizontally extending axis. The cutting knives thus rotate in a vertical or substantially vertical plane. They form a vertical chopper. The further rotating cutting knives are arranged below the picking gap and behind the cutting knives which form the horizontal chopper.According to the invention, a draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling cutting edge. This draw-in roller also can be referred to as knife roller. The spiraling cutting edge improves the chopping effect.In particular, it can thereby be achieved that the stalk of the corn plant or other plant is split centrally, in fiber direction. This can lead to the fact that the organic material will decay more easily. In particular, it can be prevented that insects which are problematic for the cultivation of the corn plant or other plant can multiply and/or overwinter in the interior of the stalk.Advantageous developments are described in the sub-claims.It is advantageous when the other draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling cutting edge. The chopping effect can even further be improved thereby.It is, however, also possible that the other draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling strip. This draw-in roller also can be referred to as strip roller. The strip does not have a tapered cross-section which can be sharpened, like the spiraling cutting edge, but a cross-section ending blunt. This can also lead to a further improvement of the chopping effect.It is advantageous when the spiraling cutting edge of the one draw-in roller and the spiraling cutting edge of the other draw-in roller penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the portions of the cutting edges overlap each other. At the same time, the arrangement is made such that the spaced portions of the cutting edge of the one draw-in roller penetrate into the gaps between the spaced portions of the cutting edge of the other draw-in roller, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers are synchronized, in order to continually ensure this absence of collisions.Correspondingly, it is advantageous when the spiraling cutting edge of the one draw-in roller and the spiraling strip of the other draw-in roller penetrate each other in a corresponding way.According to another advantageous development, flutings are present between the spaced portions of the spiraling strip of the other draw-in roller. The chopping effect can further be improved thereby.One or both of the draw-in rollers can have a smooth draw-in region.Instead or in addition, one or both of the draw-in rollers can have a draw-in region with a spiraling strip.The draw-in region of one or both of the draw-in rollers can be designed cone-shaped. The cone flares in direction to the rear.The invention furthermore relates to a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine with a frame which is characterized by one or more picking units according to the invention.The invention finally relates to a harvesting machine, in particular a combine-harvester which is characterized by a harvesting attachment according to the invention.Exemplary embodiments of the invention will be explained in detail below with reference to the attached drawing, in which:FIG. 1 shows a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine with a frame and several picking units for corn or the like in a perspective view obliquely from the top front,FIG. 2 shows the harvesting attachment according to FIG. 1 in a perspective view obliquely from the top rear,FIG. 3 shows a part of the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 and 2 without covering hoods in a view from above,FIG. 4 shows the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 to 3 in a side view,FIG. 5a shows a detail from FIG. 4 in a side view,FIG. 5b shows a detail from FIG. 5a in a perspective view,FIG. 5c shows another detail from FIG. 5a in a perspective view,FIG. 6 shows an end of the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 to 5 with a primary gear in a perspective view,FIG. 7 shows the primary gear according to FIG. 6 in a perspective view,FIG. 8 shows a picking unit of the harvesting attachment in a perspective view obliquely from the top front,FIG. 9 shows the picking unit according to FIG. 8 in a perspective view obliquely from the top rear,FIG. 10 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 and 9 in a perspective view corresponding to FIG. 9,FIG. 11 shows a part of the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 to 10 in a perspective view obliquely from the bottom front with two draw-in rollers formed as knife rollers and a horizontal chopper with a rotor with cutting knives in one plane,FIG. 12 shows the picking unit according to FIG. 11 in an enlarged perspective representation,FIG. 13 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 11 and 12 with a horizontal chopper with one rotor with cutting knives in three planes,FIG. 14 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 11 and 12 with a horizontal chopper with two rotors with cutting knives in one plane each,FIG. 15 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIG. 14 with a horizontal chopper with two rotors with cutting knives in three planes each,FIG. 16 shows the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 to 15 in a view from below, andFIG. 17 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIG. 16 with one draw-in roller formed as knife roller and one formed as strip roller.The harvesting attachment shown in FIGS. 1 and 2 for a harvesting machine, in particular for a combine-harvester, comprises a frame 1 which includes a rear wall 2 and a bottom wall 3. The frame has an L-shaped angular form. The rear wall 2 substantially extends in vertical direction, and the bottom wall 3 substantially extends in horizontal direction.The longitudinal extension of the frame 1 corresponds to the working width. The frame 1 includes side boxes 4 at its ends. In the middle of the frame 1 the rear wall 2 is provided with an elevation 5 which extends on the extension of the rear wall 2 and includes lateral bevels 6.In the middle of the rear wall 2 there is furthermore provided a through opening 7 which on both sides is defined by the side walls 2 as well as by the bottom wall 3 and the elevation 5. The through opening 7 can serve for mounting the frame 1 on the harvesting vehicle. Furthermore, the crop can be conveyed through the through opening 7 from the front side of the frame 1 to the harvesting vehicle. For conveying the crop, a conveying screw 8 is present in the frame, which is located in the region of transition from the rear wall 2 to the bottom wall 3.The frame 1 is formed as continuously cast profile, preferably as continuously cast light-metal profile of aluminum or of a material which contains aluminum. To the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1 several picking units 9 for corn or the like are attached. The picking units 9 each comprise a picking gap 10 which extends from the bottom front to the top rear. The picking units 9 are arranged parallel to each other and at a distance from each other, preferably each at the same distance.Between two adjacent picking units 9 a covering hood 11 each is provided. At its front end, each covering hood 11 has a tapered inlet region 12 flaring towards the rear. The picking gaps 10 of adjacent picking units 9 adjoin the inlet regions 12 of adjacent covering hoods 11.FIG. 3 shows an end of the frame 1 and four picking units 9 from which the covering hoods 11 have been removed. Each picking unit 9 comprises two draw-in chains 13 which are arranged on both sides of the picking gap 10. They are located above the picking gap 10. Each draw-in chain 13 endlessly runs around two rollers 15, which are rotatably mounted about approximately vertical axes inclined towards the front, so that the draw-in chains 13 revolve in opposite directions in approximately horizontal planes inclined towards the front. The sides of the draw-in chains 13 facing each other extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. They furthermore extend parallel to and at a distance from the picking gap 10 from front to rear. On the draw-in chains 13 carriers 14 are provided, which protrude into the region above the picking gap 10 and there are moving from front to rear.As shown in FIG. 4, each picking unit 9 comprises a horizontal chopper 16. The horizontal chopper 16 is located below the picking gap 10 and below the draw-in chains 13. It comprises cutting knives 17 which rotate about a vertical axis in a horizontal plane. In the embodiment according to FIG. 4, the cutting knives 17 are arranged in three planes located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other.As shown in particular in FIGS. 8 to 10, each picking unit 9 comprises a vertical chopper 18 which includes cutting knives 19 that rotate about a horizontally extending axis in a vertical plane. The vertical chopper is arranged below the picking gap and behind the picking gap and behind the horizontal chopper.Each picking unit 9 comprises a housing 20. The vertical chopper 18 is pivotally mounted on the housing 20 about a horizontal axis 21. The horizontal axis 21 is located at the rear end of the housing 20.The vertical chopper 18 has a frame 22 which comprises two outer longitudinal struts 23. The longitudinal struts 23 extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. They extend from the horizontal axis 21 to the rear.In the ends of the longitudinal struts 23 a shaft 24 is mounted, to which the cutting knives 19 are attached. The cutting knives 19 can be suspended in pendulum fashion about horizontal axes.The shaft 24 of the vertical chopper 18 is driven by a belt drive which is arranged in a longitudinal strut 23. The belt drive comprises a belt, preferably a toothed belt. The belt or toothed belt wraps around the shaft 24 and a drive shaft which extends coaxially to the horizontal axis 21.In the embodiment according to FIGS. 8 and 9 the cutting knives 19 are arranged within the frame 22. In the embodiment according to FIG. 10 further cutting knives 19 are present, which are arranged outside the frame. For this purpose, the shaft 24 on both sides is extended to the outside via the longitudinal struts 23.On the vertical chopper 18 sliding blocks 25 are mounted. The sliding blocks 25 are attached to the rear lower ends of the longitudinal struts 23 of the frame 22. They are designed arc-shaped. The sliding blocks 25 are convexly curved, so that they rest on the bottom in an arc-shaped manner. Due to the sliding blocks 25 and the pivotal mounting of the vertical chopper 18 on the housing 20 about the horizontal axis 21, each vertical chopper 18 of the adjacent picking units 9 can adapt to the ground profile. As a result, an adaptation of the respective vertical chopper 18 to the height of the ground also is possible, when the ground height varies along the longitudinal extension of the frame 1 which extends transversely to the direction of travel of the combine-harvester.As shown in particular in FIGS. 11 to 17, each picking unit 9 includes two draw-in rollers 26, 27. The draw-in rollers 26 are located on both sides of the picking gap 10. They rotate in opposite directions about axes which extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. The axes of rotation of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 extend parallel to the picking gap 10 from the bottom front to the top rear. They are located below the picking gap 10.A draw-in roller 26 has a portion 28 with a spiraling cutting edge 29. The cutting edge 29 has a tapered cross-section which can be sharpened.In the embodiment according to FIG. 16, the other draw-in roller 27 also has a portion 30 with a spiraling cutting edge 31. The cutting edges 29, 31 penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the cutting edges 29, 31 overlap each other. The arrangement is made such that the spaced, adjacent portions 32 of the cutting edge 29 penetrate into the gaps between the spaced, adjacent portions 33 of the cutting edge 31 of the other draw-in roller 27, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 are synchronized, in order to ensure this absence of collisions.In the embodiment according to FIG. 17, the other draw-in roller 27 has a portion 30 with a spiraling strip 34. The strip 34 has a cross-section ending blunt. It substantially is a rectangular cross-section. The spiraling cutting edge 29 of the draw-in roller 26 and the spiraling strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27 penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the cutting edge 29 and the strip 34 overlap each other. The arrangement is made such that the spaced, adjacent portions 32 of the cutting edge 39 penetrate into the gaps between the spaced, adjacent portions 33 of the strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 are synchronized, in order to ensure this absence of collisions.Between the portions 33 of the spiraling strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27 flutings 35 are present. The flutings 35 are depressions or elevations which extend in longitudinal direction of the other draw-in roller 27 and which are spaced from each other in radial direction, preferably at the same distance.The draw-in rollers 26, 27 each have a draw-in region 36. The draw-in regions 36 are located at the front ends of the draw-in rollers 26, 27. They are designed cone-shaped. The cone flares from front to the rear. At the rear end the diameter of the cones of the draw-in regions 36 corresponds with the diameter of the portions 28, 30 of the draw-in rollers 26, 27. The portions 28, 30 of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 extend from the rear ends of the draw-in regions 36 to the rear ends of the draw-in rollers 26, 27.In the embodiment according to FIG. 16, both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37. In the embodiment according to FIG. 17, the draw-in roller 26 has a smooth draw-in region 36. The other draw-in roller 27 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37. However, all other combinations also are possible. It is possible that in both embodiments both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a smooth draw-in region 36, that in both embodiments the draw-in roller 26 has a smooth draw-in region 36 and the other draw-in roller 27 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37, that in both embodiments the draw-in roller 26 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37 and the other draw-in roller 27 has a smooth draw-in region 36, and that in both embodiments both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37.FIGS. 11 and 12 show a picking unit 9 with a horizontal chopper 16 which includes a rotor with two cutting knives 17 in one plane. In the exemplary embodiment according to FIG. 13 the picking unit 9 includes a horizontal chopper 16 with a rotor on which two cutting knives 17 each are arranged in three planes located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other. In the embodiment according to FIG. 14, the horizontal chopper 16 comprises two rotors with two cutting knives each in one plane each, wherein these planes are offset against each other in height, so that the knife circles overlapping each other cannot lead to a collision of the cutting knives 17. In the embodiment according to FIG. 15 the horizontal chopper 16 comprises two rotors with two cutting knives 17 each in three planes each, which are located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other. The knife planes of the two rotors are offset against each other in height, in order to avoid collisions of the cutting knives 17 whose knife circles overlap each other.FIGS. 4 and 5 show the connection of a picking unit 9 to the frame 1. The picking unit 9 is releasably connected with the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1. For this purpose, the bottom wall 3 includes a horizontally extending vertical strip 40 which comprises an upwardly directed supporting strip 41. The vertical strip 40 is located at the front end of the bottom wall 3. A gripping strip 42 rests on the supporting strip 41. The gripping strip 42 has a groove on its underside, into which the supporting strip 41 engages with its upper end. The gripping strip 42 is releasably connected with the housing 20 of the picking unit 9 by screw bolts. The connecting point is located on the top side of the housing 20. The screw bolts extend in vertical direction. The vertical strip 40 can include a lower strip which is directed downwards. This strip and the supporting strip 41 can form a dovetail guide.On the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1 there is furthermore provided a horizontally extending horizontal strip 43. The horizontal strip 43 is located on the underside of the bottom wall 3. It comprises a rearwardly directed fixing strip 44. The end of the fixing strip is enclosed by a gripping strip 45 which for this purpose includes a corresponding groove. The gripping strip 45 is connected with the housing 20 of the picking unit 9 by screw bolts. The connecting point is located at the rear upper end of the housing 20. The screw bolts extend in horizontal direction.For assembly of a picking unit 9 the gripping strip 42 can be connected with the housing 20. The unit produced thereby can be hung into the supporting strip 41. Subsequently, the housing 20 can be pivoted about the supporting strip 41 in anti-clockwise direction, until the position shown in FIG. 5a is reached, at which the rear upper end of the housing 20 rests against a stop 46 which is located in front of the fixing strip 44. In this position, the gripping strip 45 can be positioned from the rear and be fixed at the housing 20 by the screw bolts.In the housing 20 the drives for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13, the cutting knives 17 of the horizontal chopper 16 and the cutting knives 19 of the vertical chopper 18 are arranged. The input shaft 50 drives the drive for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the input shaft 51 the drive for the draw-in chains 13, and the input shaft 52 the drives for the cutting knives 17 of the horizontal chopper 16 and the cutting knives 19 of the vertical chopper 18.FIGS. 6 and 7 show the drive of the input shafts 50, 51, 52. For this purpose, a primary gear 53 is provided. The primary gear 53 is arranged behind the side wall 2 of the frame 1. It is attached to a front side of the frame 1, namely to the side box 4. The attachment of the primary gear 43 is effected on the side wall of the side box 4 directed to the inside.The primary gear 53 is driven by an input shaft 54. The input shaft 54 extends behind the side wall 2 of the frame 1 in horizontal direction. It is connected with a drive of the combine-harvester. The three output shafts 55, 56, 57 of the primary gear 53 likewise extend in horizontal direction. They surround the input shaft 54.By the output shafts 55, 56, 57 of the primary gear 53 belt drives are driven, which are located in the side box 4. The output shafts of these belt drives are connected with the input shafts 50, 51, 52 for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19. By the primary gear 53, which is designed as four-speed manual transmission with three output stages, the input shafts 50, 51, 52 and hence the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 can be driven independently. The drives for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 are adjustable independently. It thereby is possible to adapt the speeds of the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 to the harvesting conditions and/or the different varieties and stocks. The adjustment of the drives can be effected centrally at the primary gear 53.The input shafts 50, 51, 52 extend below and in front of the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1. Furthermore, the input shafts 50, 51, 52 of adjacent picking units 9 are connected with each other. At each end of the frame 1 a side box 4 with a primary gear 53 and belt drives is arranged. The picking units 9 on the left half of the frame 1 are driven by the primary gear 53 on the left side box 4, the picking units 9 on the right half of the frame 1 by the primary gear 53 on the right side box 4.
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED U.S. APPLICATIONSNot applicable.STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENTNot applicable.NAMES OF PARTIES TO A JOINT RESEARCH AGREEMENTNot applicable.REFERENCE TO AN APPENDIX SUBMITTED ON COMPACT DISCNot applicable.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present patent application for industrial invention relates to an improved plow.2. Description of Related Art Including Information Disclosed Under 37 CFR 1.97 and 37 CFR 1.98Plows have been used in agriculture since the earliest times to move the soil and prepare it for additional works or directly for sowing.Historically speaking, the plow is a sort of evolution of the pick. In the past it was pulled by oxen or people. Today, in modernized countries, it is pulled by mechanical tractors.Traction is mechanical in countries with mechanized agriculture, and plows are mounted on tractors and fixed to a hauling hook, resting on wheels (so-called hauled plows). Alternatively, being always hauled by the tractor, plows are fixed to a hydraulic power lift (so-called carried plows that project from the tractor without the support of wheels). Carried plows are mostly used in ordinary work because they make road transfers easier.The current models of plows can be grouped in different categories according to the type of system used for attachment to the motor vehicle (hauled plows, semi-carried plows and carried plows), the type of tool (fixed single or multiple tool and idle tool) and the type of adjustment and control system of the working parts (tools) installed on each type of plow.All types of plow are provided with some common parts that can be divided into three categories according to their function: working tools, such as coulter (or knife), chisel, share and moldboard; connection, support and guide devices, such as beam, horizontal bar; and adjustment devices to control the burying and filling operations of the working tools and adjust the working depth and width.FIG. 1 shows a traditional plow according to the prior art, which is generally indicated with reference number (100), mounted on a motor vehicle, specifically a tractor in FIG. 1, indicated with reference number (200).FIG. 2 is an enlarged view of the traditional plow according to the prior art shown in FIG. 1.The plow (100) according to the prior art comprises:
a share (6) used to cut the soil,a moldboard (7) connected to the share (6) used to turn over the clods of soil cut by the share,a beam (1) connecting the share-moldboard assembly to a motor vehicle (200).
On the whole, the beam (1) supports the entire ploughing effort exerted through the various tools used to work the soil (6) are the most worn-out parts.The plow (100) is completed by adjustment devices (3) that control the burying and digging operations of the beam together with all working tools, and adjust the depth and width of the furrows.In spite of being a diffused practice, ploughing is impaired by several drawbacks.Ploughing with a plow of the prior art is a very expensive operation in terms of energy, with consequent high fuel consumption for the motor vehicle. Moreover, ploughing according to the prior art leaves macro clods on the surface of the soil because of the poor definition of the furrow made in the soil by the working parts of the plow as consequence of the cuts. Therefore, it is often necessary to carry out preparation works of the seed bed, thus extending the time needed for sowing, making it difficult to rotate crops, involving higher fuel costs and worsening the structure of the soil due to the repeated travels of the plow.The use of a vibrator applied to the plow is known in order to solve, at least partially, the aforementioned drawbacks.The use of vibrators with connecting rod-crank system with predefined travel is known.EP1108349 discloses actuating means comprising an eccentric-connecting rod transmission connected to the frame (beam) of the plow. The connecting rod is connected to the blade of the plow by means of rods. The blade is mounted in a grooved guide of the moldboard in such manner to slide. In this way, the blade of the moldboard makes an alternate movement with about 7-8 mm travel with frequency (vibrations) in the range of 500-1200 per minute. The blade of the moldboard is connected to the frame of the plow by means of the connecting rod and levers. Consequently the travel of the blade is fixed and cannot be adjusted during ploughing.DE1557822 discloses a vibrator comprising a statically balanced eccentric disk, instead of an eccentric mass that transmits vibrations. As a matter of fact, said vibrator transmits oscillations just like a crank (eccentric) and a connecting rod. The size of the oscillations depends on the double of the eccentricity value of the eccentric, which guarantees the oscillation around the fulcrum of the mobile system.Consequently, the type of plow disclosed in EP1108349 and DE1557822 may be subject to jamming in case of obstacles, such as stones or harder materials.Vibrators with eccentric masses are known to solve these drawbacks at least partially.DE2604415 discloses a vibrator disposed on a support in the proximity of the share of the plow and elastic means to dampen the vibration and prevent it from propagating to the frame of the tractor.GB519046 discloses a moldboard connected to the frame of the plow with resilient means (elastic supports). An eccentric shaft is directly connected to the structure of the moldboard. The eccentric shaft is actuated by a pulley driven by a belt in such manner to put the moldboard in high-frequency vibration. The eccentric shaft can be actuated by an electric motor or by the tractor and can provide vibrations in the ultrasound range.Although they do not have a fixed travel, the vibrators with eccentric masses disclosed in DE2604415 and GB519046 are impaired by the fact that they work at a predefined excitation force that cannot be varied during the operation of the plow according to the type of worked soil.The purpose of the present invention is to eliminate the drawbacks of the prior art and, particularly, reduce fuel costs, being ploughing one of the most energy-consuming activities.Another purpose of the present invention is to obtain a better crumbling of clods, as well as better defined furrows, thus making it easier to prepare the seed bed.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe plow of the invention is characterized by the fact that it comprises at least one vibrator.The plow comprises a beam and a moldboard fixed to said beam. The moldboard comprises a front concave surface faced towards the motor vehicle and a back surface faced towards the opposite direction with respect to the front concave surface. The moldboard comprises an upper edge and a lower edge.The vibrator comprises an upper end and a lower end and is fixed on the back surface of the moldboard.The plow comprises a share disposed in front of said moldboard and used to make a horizontal cut in the soil because of the forward movement of the plow, thus allowing the moldboard to lift up and turn over a strip of soil. Therefore the share must penetrate deeply in the soil, overcoming the friction force exerted by the soil.In order to favor the penetration of the assembly in the soil and the turning over of the soil on the moldboard, said vibrator is advantageously disposed on the back surface of the moldboard, in the proximity of the lower edge, in order to reduce the friction caused by the contact between of the soil and the plow and, in particular, the moldboard that remains in contact with the soil longer.Evidently, the parts of the plow that must be put into vibration are the share and moldboard. Given the fact that the vibrator must remain out of the soil, in order not to interfere with the worked soil, the shorter the distance between the vibrator and the share of the plow, the more effective vibrations will be, in view of the lower dampening of the vibrations transmitted by the vibrator to said share.Moreover, a higher intensity of the vibrations transmitted by the vibrator to the share and to the moldboard of the plow corresponds to a dampened friction effect of the soil detached from the land being ploughed.It must be noted that a proper frequency of the vibrations contributes to reduce energy waste and fuel consumption according to the type of plow and soil.Therefore, the plow of the invention makes it possible to overcome the drawbacks of the prior art, obtaining better defined furrows and deeper penetration of the share, at the same energy level, as well as a better breaking of clods.Evidently, the lower the friction to be overcome by the share moldboard assembly of the plow in order to penetrate, cut, lift and turn over the soil, the lower the energy required by the plow for ploughing will be. The use of the vibrator reduces fuel consumption of the tractor during ploughing by 10-30% according to the conditions and type of the soil.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFor explanatory reasons, the description of the improved plow according to the present invention continues with reference to the attached drawings, which only have illustrative, not limiting value, wherein:FIG. 1 is a side view of a plow according to the prior art, mounted on a tractor.FIG. 2 is an enlarged view of the plow according to the prior art shown in FIG. 1.FIG. 3 is a back perspective view of a tractor and a plow according to the present invention.FIG. 4 is a side view of the plow according to the present invention from the opposite side compared to FIG. 3.FIG. 5 is an axonometric view of the plow according to the present invention.FIG. 6 is a diagrammatic view of a generic vibrator;FIG. 7 is a diagrammatic view of a traditional vibrator;FIG. 8 is a diagrammatic view of an innovative vibrator;FIG. 9 is a diagrammatic view of a different version of the vibrator of FIG. 8;FIG. 10 is a diagrammatic view of an innovative vibration assembly;FIG. 11 is a block diagram of an automatic vibration system according to the present invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONFIG. 3 shows a plow (100) according to the present invention connected to a motor vehicle (200).Also referring to FIGS. 4 and 5, the plow (100) comprises a beam (1), a share (6), a chisel (5) and a moldboard (7). Although it is not shown in the attached figures, the plow of the invention may also comprise a coulter connected to the beam or directly to the chisel.The beam (1) comprises a horizontal part (12) and a vertical part (13). The horizontal part (12) of the beam (1) is provided with a free end (120) whereon the vertical part (13) of the beam (1) is fixed with bolts (14).The vertical part (13) of the beam (1) comprises a front side (130) facing towards the forward traveling direction of the plow (100) and a back side (131) facing towards the opposite direction with respect to the forward traveling direction of the plow (100).The moldboard (7) of the plow is fixed in correspondence of and onto said front side (130) of the vertical part (13) of the beam.The moldboard (7) is basically made of sheet steel and composed of a front concave surface facing towards the forward traveling direction of the plow, and a back surface (71) opposite the front concave surface. The moldboard (7) is fixed to the vertical part (13) of the beam and the back surface (71) of the moldboard is in contact with the front side (130) of the vertical part (13) of the beam.The moldboard (7) comprises an upper edge (710) and a lower edge (711).A tilted bar (9) connects the moldboard (7) to a horizontal bar (91). The horizontal bar (91) is made of a planar metal sheet with vertical working side directed towards the forward traveling direction of the plow and lower corner in parallel position to the soil direction. The horizontal bar (91) is in continuity with the chisel (5), which is in turn in continuity with the share (6). When seen from above, the share (6) and horizontal bar (91) form a penetration angle in the soil.The vertical wall of the horizontal bar (91) is adapted to rest against the vertical wall of the furrow as soon as it is made by the coulter and the chisel (5) along the forward movement direction of the plow and it is being formed because of the action of share (6) and moldboard (7). Therefore, the horizontal bar (91) is especially adapted to act as guide and support for the entire plow on the unploughed soil for a substantially rectilinear direction of the furrow.The shape of the plow is merely indicative, the range of known plows being very large. The application of a vibrator to the plow, in order to increase its ploughing efficiency, determines some changes in the plow configuration according to the specific type of plow.Therefore, the tilted bar (9) acts as reinforcement and connection between moldboard (7) and horizontal bar (91).Referring to FIG. 5, the share (6) precedes the moldboard (7), in terms of contact with soil, with oblique transversal position compared to the forward direction of the plow (100).Referring to FIGS. 4 and 5, the plow (100) comprises a vibrator (20).The vibrator (20) is mechanized and comprises a motor with shaft whereon eccentric masses are keyed.The rotation of the eccentric masses of the vibrator (20) generates vibrations. The variable frequency of the vibrations is adjusted, according to plow type and soil conditions, by varying the rotational speed of the drive shaft, whereas the intensity of the vibrations is defined by the eccentricity and weight of the eccentric masses.Advantageously, the frequency of the vibrations generated by said vibrator (20) mounted on the plow (100) is 1000-3000 vibrations/min, preferably 2000 vibrations/min. The power of the vibrator (20) depends on the size of the plow (100) and is 0.3-2.0 kW, preferably 0.5 kW.The use of the vibrator (20), mounted on the plow (100) and vibrating at the frequency of 2000 vibrations/min, allows for saving 10-30% of the power needed by the plow (100) to plough and consequently for saving 10-30% of the fuel used by the tractor during ploughing.The vibrator (20) mounted on the plow (100), comprises an upper end (21) and a lower end (22). The vibrator (20) is fixed with bolts (23) to the back surface (71) of the moldboard (7) of the plow (100). In particular, the vibrator (20) is fixed to the back surface (71) of the moldboard in such manner to be disposed in the lowest point of the back surface (71) of the moldboard.Moreover, the vibrator (2) is disposed in the space between the tilted bar (9) and the horizontal bar (91) of the moldboard (7).In order for the vibration transmitted by the vibrator (20) to the moldboard (7) to be effective, the vibration direction of the moldboard (7) must be substantially perpendicular to the working surface of the moldboard. Moreover, the vibrations of the vibrator (20) must be “felt” more in the area of the moldboard that is mostly involved in the turning over of the soil.The position of the vibrator (20) on the plow (100) is strictly related to the efficacy of the vibrations transmitted to said share (6) and moldboard (7) of the plow (100).In particular, if the vibrator (20) is mounted on the plow (100) in such manner that the lower end (22) of the vibrator (20) is as close as possible to the lower edge (711) of the back surface (71) of the moldboard (7), said vibrator (20) is disposed at a short distance from the share (6) of the plow (100) and, therefore, the vibrations generated by the vibrator (20) and transmitted to said share (6) are not very dampened.Referring to FIG. 3, the plow (100) is mounted on a tractor, generally indicated with reference number (200).The vibrator (20) mounted on the plow (100) comprises a cable or power supply pipe (24) adapted to power said vibrator (20). The powering of the vibrator (20) can either be hydraulic or pneumatic or electrical, according to the type of power used for the tractor (200) whereon the plow (100) is fixed.In particular, if the vibrator (20) is hydraulically powered, the vibrator (20) has a hydraulic motor and a hydraulic pump actuated by an internal combustion engine of the tractor (200) to power said hydraulic motor by means of a pump with fixed or variable displacement. Vice versa, if the vibrator (20) is electrically powered, the vibrator (20) is powered with direct current by connecting said power supply cable (24) to a battery provided on the tractor (200).The vibrator (20) can be also powered with alternate current. In such a case, an electrical generator directly actuated by the motor of the tractor (or by an optional internal combustion engine) is provided.Alternative embodiments of the plows according to the invention provide for the presence of two or more vibrators, which actuate differently on the various parts of the plow (share, moldboard and other parts).Referring to FIG. 6, a generic vibrator can be represented with only one equivalent mass (M) (also with multiple masses), connected to a rotary shaft (A) driven into rotation by a motor around its axis at a rotational speed (n). The mass (M) has an eccentric center of gravity (B) with respect to the axis of rotation (A) of the rotary shaft with eccentricity value (E).The mass (M) is expressed in kilograms, the rotational speed (n) in revolutions per minute (rpm) and eccentricity (E) in meters.The characteristics of the vibrator are:f(Hertz)=n/60 (excitation frequency)F(N)=M·4(πf)2·E (centrifugal excitation force)FIG. 7 shows a vibrator (20) of traditional type comprising two masses (m, m′) with the same mass and positioned with the same eccentricity (e) with respect to the axis (A) of the rotary shaft (S). The masses (m, m′) are joined to the rotary shaft (S), but angularly displaced by an angle (α), meaning that the two straight lines passing through the centers of gravity of the two masses and the axis of the rotary shaft form an angle (α).Therefore, with such vibrator (20) provided with two masses, it is theoretically possible to vary the mutual angular position of the two masses (m, m′), i.e. the angle (α), in such manner to vary the vectorial resultant of the equivalent centrifugal force F ed, in scalar terms, the product “M*E” that represents the excitation force F of the vibrator. When the two masses (m, m′) are in opposition (at 180°), the excitation force F is null (total eccentricity E=0). When the two masses (m, m′) are in phase (at 0°), the excitation F is maximum (resultant for an equivalent mass M=2 m positioned with eccentricity E=e).However, in the traditional vibrator (20) of FIG. 7, the two masses (m, m′) can be displaced only with a manual action on the vibrator, after stopping and partially dismounting it. Therefore, the vibration of the traditional vibrator (20) can be controlled only by controlling the rotational speed (n) of the rotary shaft.The excitation frequency (f) can be varied on any traditional vibrator of traditional type.In case of hydraulic vibrator (actuated by a hydraulic motor, through a pump directly moved by a power take-off of the tractor), the vibration frequency, which is strictly connected to the rotational speed of the vibrator, is varied by changing the hydraulic capacity of the hydraulic motor. This can be done by intervening on the working condition of the pump, in case of a variable displacement pump, or of the hydraulic motor, if with variable displacement.In case of an electrical vibrator (actuated by an electric motor), it is necessary to act on the electrical power supply produced by an alternator. An electrical frequency converter must be disposed between alternator and electrical motor (inverter). So, by varying the electrical frequency, the rotational speed “n” of the vibrator, and consequently the excitation frequency “f” of the vibrator, is varied.Innovative vibrators have been designed in order to vary the excitation force (F), as illustrated below.FIG. 8 shows a vibrator (320) wherein a first mass (m) is fixed to the rotary shaft (S) and a second mass (m′) is revolvingly mounted with respect to the rotary shaft, in such manner to vary the angular distance of the two masses (m, m′), i.e. the angle (α) between the radial straight lines that connect the center of gravity of the two masses (m, m′) to the axis (A) of the rotary shaft. The vibrator (320) comprises an adjustment system (300) adapted to vary the angular position “α” of the two masses (m, m′). The adjustment device (300) makes the second mass (s) rotate with respect to the shaft (S) of the vibrator in such manner to obtain the desired angular position. Moreover, it blocks the second mass (m′) in the desire angular position during the rotation of the shaft (S) of the vibrator.In view of the above, the excitation force “F” can be varied from a null minimum value to a maximum value by means of the adjustment system (300).An embodiment of the adjustment system (300) can comprise a back driven motor installed on board the vibrator, such as a brushless motor and a planetary reduction gear, if any, to impress the desired mutual displacement between the two masses (m, m′). In this way the vibrator (320) can be automatically adjusted during its operation without being dismounted.FIG. 9 shows an alternative embodiment wherein the vibrator (320) comprises four eccentric masses (m, m′) disposed in pairs (C1, C2) on the same drive shaft with axis of rotation (A). Each pair of masses comprises a first mass (m) fixed to the drive shaft and a second mass (m′) that revolves with respect to the drive shaft in such manner to vary the angle (α) between the two masses. The second mass (m′) of each pair of masses is connected to an adjustment system (300).Referring to FIG. 10, instead of using a single vibrator with one of the two masses in variable angular position during motion, a vibrating assembly (420) can be adopted, comprising two vibrators (20a, 20b) of traditional type (i.e. with non-variable angular position of the masses during motion). In such a case, an adjustment and control system must be provided (400) to adjust and control the rotational speed of the vibrator shafts and the mutual displacement of the masses of the two vibrators, in such manner to vary the mutual displacement of the masses and maintain the same rotational speed of the shafts of the two vibrators.In this way the assembly of the two traditional vibrators (20a, 20b), and the adjustment and control system (400), must be considered as a vibration system with variable angular position of the masses of the two vibrators (20a, 20b), with vibrators in motion.In this case, each vibrator (20a, 20b) is actuated by a motor (Mta, MTb). The two motors (MTa, MTb) are analogous and provided with position sensor (encoder) (ENa, ENb) to detect the position of the masses. The encoder can be external or internal to the motor. Each motor is provided with power supply (ALa, ALb), generally in alternate current, managed by a control unit (UC) based on the data detected by the encoders (ENa, ENb). Therefore, the adjustment and control system (400) comprises encoders (ENa, ENb), power supplies (ALa, ALb) and control unit (UC).Motor (MTa) is the primary or master motor and the other motor (MTb) is the secondary or slave motor. The coordination between master and slave is made by the control unit (UC) that can be a dedicated (embedded) controller and a PLC (programmable) controller. The motors (MTa, MTb) can be of different type with respect to the brushless motor (with embedded encoder) or of any other type of induction motor (asynchronous, step-to-step or permanent magnets).The adjustment and control system (400) provide the rotation of the rotary shafts of the vibrators (20a, 20b) in the same direction to have omnidirectional vibration or in the opposite direction to have unidirectional vibration. In fact, according to the soil configuration, a unidirectional vibration of the share-moldboard assembly may give better results in terms of ploughing efficiency and energy saving. Moreover, the direction of the unidirectional vibration and the scalar value of the excitation force (related to the direction) can be adjusted according to the displacement imposed to the masses of the two vibrators.Therefore, a two-step action can be made on the individual vibrator (320) that comprises at least two masses (m, m′) with adjustable position during motion, or on the vibrator assembly (420) that comprises two vibrators (20a, 20b) provided with adjustment and control system (400):
1. action on the number of revolutions (n) (of the individual or double vibrator) that involves the variation of the excitation frequency (f) and consequently also of the excitation force (F);2. action on the angular position between two masses of the individual or double vibrator, with consequent variation of the excitation force (F).
The first or the second action can be applied independently, or a double action can be made in cascade mode—first and second action—in order to have a summation effect, should the first action not be sufficient.As shown in FIG. 11, the tractor of the invention comprises a controller (500) to provide automatic control of the vibrator assembly (20; 320; 420). FIG. 11 shows the vibrator (320), it being understood that any type of vibrator can be used.The controller (500) is an electronic device, for example of PID (Proportional-Integral-Derivative) type, provided with dedicated software, and in part parameterization, for the specific application. The control logics can be of Fuzzy Logic type, as an alternative to PID.The purpose of the automatic control is to obtain the most effective vibration result (effect of the vibrating excitation) on the share-moldboard assembly of the plow, in order to obtain energy saving during ploughing, with minimum tractive force for the plow.Therefore sensors must be provided, and signals must be sent to the input of the controller (500). Based on the input signals, the controller processes an output signal to be sent to the vibrator (320) in order to vary the number of revolutions (n) and/or the angle (α) between the masses (m, m′) of the vibrator.Referring to FIGS. 4 and 11, the tractor must comprise a force sensor (Ss), such as a strain gauge, applied to the beam (1) of the plow to detect the average value “σm” of the ploughing force. As mentioned, the ploughing force depends on various ploughing parameters, including ground conditions and soil resistance.The optimization of the results obtained by the control system is based on the ideal vibration value to obtain the minimum ploughing effort and consequently achieve the energy saving provided by the application of the vibrator (320) on the plow (100).Therefore the controller (500) acquires the force values (σm), pursuing a minimum force (σmin). The minimum force (σmin) is pursued by acting on the vibrator assembly (either individual or double), that is to say on the number of revolutions (n) of the vibrator and/or the angle (α) between the masses of the vibrator.Optionally, the plow comprises a power sensor (Sp), such as a wattmeter (in case of electrical vibrator) or another type of sensor (in case of hydraulic or pneumatic vibrator), connected to the vibrator (320) to detect the power absorption (Pa) of the vibrator (320). In such a case, the controller (500) also acquires the power absorption values (Pa), pursuing the maximum desired value (P/σ)max of the ratio between the power absorbed by the vibrator and the force on the beam.Optionally, the plow also comprises a vibration sensor (Sv), such as an accelerometer, applied to the share (5)—moldboard (7) assembly to detect an average vibration value (am). Advantageously, the vibration sensor (Sv) is disposed on the opposite side with respect to the working surface of the moldboard (7).With the presence of the vibration sensor (Sv), in addition to the fundamental force sensor (Ss), the controller (500) compares the values detected by said sensors with the desired ratio (a/σ)max between vibration and force, which can be set on the set point of the controller (500).Numerous variations and modifications can be made to the embodiments of the invention, which are within the reach of an expert of the field, while still falling within the scope of the invention described in the enclosed claims.
TECHNICAL FIELDExample embodiments generally relate to outdoor power equipment and, more particularly, relate to tiller with detachable tines.BACKGROUNDGrounds care/yard maintenance and other outdoor tasks associated with grooming and maintaining property are commonly performed using various tools and/or machines that are configured for the performance of corresponding specific tasks. Certain tasks, like snow removal, are typically performed by snow removal equipment such as snow blowers or snow throwers that may be mounted on riding or walk behind devices. Other tasks, like lawn mowing may be performed by riding or walk behind lawn mowers. Still other tasks, such as tilling, trimming and/or the like may also be employed by either riding or walk behind devices. Moreover, in some cases, such tasks may be performed using hand held power equipment.One common type of tiller, or cultivator, employs some form of rotating assembly that is configured to stir, pulverize or otherwise break up the ground that is encountered thereby in order to loosen the soil, aerate the soil and alleviate soil compaction. Loosened soil may be more easily augmented with fertilizer and may also be more easily planted. Tilling might also convert a patch of soil that is currently covered with undesirable plants into a seed ready patch that can be prepared for conversion into a more useful agricultural purpose.It is often desirable to control the depth to which the ground is tilled, stirred or pulverized. Thus, the rotating assembly may be configured to be rotated while encountering the soil down to a predefined depth. The rotating assembly may include teeth or disks that are turned through their interaction with the soil. When teeth are employed, they may be referred to as tines.The rotation of the tines through the soil tends to break up the soil and also uproot any rooted plants that are encountered. For smaller plants, the uprooting action may simply kill the plant and discard the uprooted plant as the rotating assembly continues to turn. However, for larger plants that may have more developed or larger root systems, it is possible for the roots to become tangled in the tines of the rotating assembly. If the tangling of roots within the tines of the rotating assembly becomes significant, the effectiveness of the rotating assembly relative to tilling the ground may be reduced. In extreme cases, the rotation of the rotating assembly may even be inhibited. This phenomenon may cause the operator to need to stop tilling from time to time in order to clear obstructions from the rotating assembly. In many cases, clearing obstructions from the tines may be difficult to do. The operator may need to employ tools to cut through roots and pull them out of the tines manually. Meanwhile, the operator may need to be bent over or tip the tilling machine on its side to get at the problem to attempt to fix it. Even so, the operator may be limited to only one direction from which to attempt to reach obstructions with any degree of effectiveness since the tiller tines may remain fixed to the rotating assembly and the shaft that turns the assembly. This may increase the time it takes to cultivate and may reduce the efficiency of operation while also decreasing operator satisfaction.BRIEF SUMMARY OF SOME EXAMPLESSome example embodiments may therefore provide a rotating tine assembly that can be more easily cleared of obstructions. In this regard, for example, some embodiments may provide a detachable rotating assembly for a tiller. The detachable rotating assembly may allow the tiller tines to be easily removed from a rotatable shaft so that the operator can clear obstructions more easily. Moreover, in some cases, a single removable pin may be provided to hold the tiller tines to the rotatable shaft. The pin, which in some cases may be removed without the use of any tools, may be relatively easy to remove so that the rotating assembly itself can be removed and the operator may clear the tines of obstruction with access to any part of the assembly.In one example embodiment, a tiller is provided. The tiller may include an engine, a mobility assembly and a rotating assembly. The mobility assembly may be operably coupled to the engine to provide mobility of the tiller responsive to operation of the engine. The rotating assembly may be selectively coupled to the engine to provide rotation of the rotating assembly. The rotating assembly may include a rotatable shaft configured to turn when the rotation assembly is operably coupled to the engine, and one or more sets of tines disposed on respective tine assemblies. Each of the tine assemblies may include a hollow shaft for receiving the rotatable shaft. The one or more sets of tines may extend radially outward from the respective tine assemblies.In another example embodiment, a rotating assembly for working ground responsive to operation of a tiller when the rotating assembly is selectively coupled to an engine of the tiller is provided. The rotating assembly may include a rotatable shaft configured to turn when the rotation assembly is selectively coupled to the engine, and one or more sets of tines disposed on respective tine assemblies. Each of the tine assemblies may include a hollow shaft for receiving the rotatable shaft. The one or more sets of tines may extend radially outward from the respective tine assemblies.In another example embodiment, a method of providing a tiller with removable tine assemblies is provided. The method may include providing selective coupling between an engine of the tiller and a rotatable shaft on which a rotating assembly that works ground over which the tiller passes responsive to rotation of the rotatable shaft and providing a sleeve portion of the rotating assembly to receive the rotatable shaft. The sleeve portion may have one or more sets of tines extending radially outward therefrom. The method may further include enabling one end of the sleeve portion to be fixed relative to the rotatable shaft and an opposite end of the rotatable shaft to be selectively fixed to the rotatable shaft such that the sleeve portion is alternately fixable and releasable relative to the rotatable shaft without requiring a tool.Some example embodiments may improve the ability of operators to maintain the tiller tines in a clear and effective condition to improve performance and operability of a tiller or cultivator.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:FIG. 1 illustrates a side perspective view of a walk behind tiller according to an example embodiment;FIG. 2A illustrates a side view of a rotating assembly of the walk behind tiller according to an example embodiment;FIG. 2B illustrates a perspective view of the rotating assembly of the walk behind tiller according to an example embodiment;FIG. 3 illustrates a partially exploded perspective view of the rotating assembly according to an example embodiment; andFIG. 4 illustrates a block diagram of a method of providing a tiller with removable tine assemblies according to an example embodiment.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONSome example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed, the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope, applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather, these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. Furthermore, as used herein, the term “or” is to be interpreted as a logical operator that results in true whenever one or more of its operands are true. As used herein, operable coupling should be understood to relate to direct or indirect connection that, in either case, enables functional interconnection of components that are operably coupled to each other.Some example embodiments may improve an operator's experience associated with operating a tiller, cultivator, and/or the like. In this regard, some embodiments may generally improve the operator's ability to maintain the tines of the tiller in an operable condition in which they are not fouled or obstructed with vegetation and/or roots. To provide such improvement, some embodiments may employ a rotatable shaft to which a rotating assembly may be mounted. The rotating assembly may have a plurality of tines attached thereto in any desirable configuration. The rotating assembly may be relatively easily removable from the rotatable shaft based on the operation of a removable pin. The pin may hold the rotating assembly in place on the rotatable shaft when the pin is installed, and may allow the rotating assembly to be removed from the rotatable shaft when the pin is removed. In some cases, the pin may be removed without the use of tools so that the operator can easily remove the rotating assembly and clear obstruction or fouling of the tines.FIG. 1 illustrates a side view of a walk behind tiller 10 according to an example embodiment. Although the walk behind tiller 10 of FIG. 1 is illustrated and will primarily be described herein, it should be appreciated that example embodiments may also be practiced in connection with any other types of tillers or cultivators as well. For example, other embodiments may also be practiced in connection with tractor mounted tillers or cultivators as well. Thus, the descriptions provided herein relative to a walk behind tiller should be appreciated as being non-limiting examples.The tiller 10 may include a chassis or frame 20 to which various components of the tiller 10 may be attached. The frame 20 may support an engine 30, such as a gasoline powered engine. Operation of the engine 30 may be initiated by a recoil starter via pulling of a recoil starter handle 32 by the operator. However, in other embodiments, tillers may alternatively be started via a key, switch or other similar device.The tiller 10 may include wheels 40 or continuous tracks forming a mobility assembly on which a substantial portion of the weight of the tiller 10 may rest, when the tiller 10 is stationary. The wheels 40 or continuous tracks may also provide for mobility of the tiller 10. In some cases, the mobility assembly may be driven via power from the engine 30. However, in other cases, the mobility assembly may simply provide for mobility of the tiller 10 responsive to pushing by the operator.The tiller 10 may also include a rotating assembly 50. In this example, the rotating assembly 50 includes a plurality of tines 52 that are configured to work, or dig up, the ground responsive to rotation of the set of tines 52 by operable coupling to the engine 30. The operable coupling of the set of tines 52 to the engine 30 may be selectively engaged and/or disengaged (e.g., via a clutch, a series of belts/pulleys, a friction wheel or other similar devices). In some embodiments, selective engagement to operably couple the set of tines 52 to the engine 30 may be facilitated via coupling of rotary motion provided by the engine 30 to a rotatable shaft on which the set of tines 52 is mounted. This coupling may be provided by a chain, belt or other such assembly.On the tiller 10, the set of tines 52 may be housed within a shroud 54 including side panels 56 and a leveling shield 58. The shroud 54 may prevent or inhibit dirt and debris from being expelled from the vicinity of the set of tines 52 and toward the operator or other people or objects nearby. The tiller 10 may also include a depth stake 60 and a drag stake 62 to facilitate operation of the tiller 10. Some embodiments may not employ the shroud 54, side panels 56 and/or the leveling shield 58.In an example embodiment, a handle assembly 70 may extend rearward and upward from the frame 20 above the shroud 50 in order to enable the operator to engage the handle assembly 70 and operate the tiller 10 while walking behind the tiller 10 (e.g., at the operator station). The handle assembly 70 may include a handle apparatus 72, which may include a handlebar or handles (as shown in FIG. 1). In some embodiments, a control panel 74 may also be positioned proximate to the handle apparatus 72 to provide speed and/or other engine controls (e.g., via throttle control 76 and/or shift lever 78). Alternatively or additionally, the control panel 74 may host other functional controllers for operation of the tiller 10. However, the control panel 74 may be eliminated or serve other functions in other example embodiments. The handles or handlebar employed in connection with the handle apparatus 72 may, in some cases, include one or more levers, bails or other movable control members that can be grasped by the operator while the operator simultaneously grasps the handle apparatus 72. These levers, bails or other movable control members may be operated for engagement of the rotating assembly 50 or for other control functions that impact operation of the walk behind power equipment device.As indicated above, some example embodiments may provide for relatively easy removability of the rotating assembly 50 in order to facilitate cleaning and maintenance thereof. FIG. 2, which includes FIGS. 2A and 2B, illustrates the rotating assembly 50 of an example embodiment in greater detail while in an operational or assembled state. In this regard, FIG. 2A illustrates a side view of the rotating assembly 50 and FIG. 2B illustrates a perspective view of the rotating assembly according to an example embodiment. Meanwhile, FIG. 3 shows the rotating assembly 50 in a non-operational or partially disassembled state which may facilitate clearing any fouling or obstruction that may inhibit operation of the tiller 10. In this regard, FIG. 3 illustrates a partially exploded perspective view of the rotating assembly 50 according to an example embodiment. It should be noted that the example of FIGS. 2 and 3 relates to one particular arrangement of a rotating assembly 50 having six distinct sets of tines (e.g., three on each side of the center of the rotating assembly 50). However, it should be appreciated that any number of sets of tines may be employed and they may be oriented and/or arranged in any number of different ways.Referring now to FIGS. 2 and 3, the rotating assembly 50 may include a rotatable shaft 100. The rotatable shaft 100 may be a single rigid member (e.g., a single rod, tube, bar, beam, shaft or other linearly extending component) extending transversely from one side of the tiller 10 to the other (e.g., substantially parallel to the axle between wheels 40 and substantially perpendicular to the general direction of travel of the tiller 10). In some embodiments, the rotatable shaft 100 may be made of multiple parts that are fitted or otherwise fixed together. Thus, it is not necessary that the rotatable shaft 100 be made from a single member. Furthermore, although FIGS. 2 and 3 illustrate the rotatable shaft 100 as having a substantially cylindrical structure such that a cross section view perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the rotatable shaft 100 presents a circular shape, it should be appreciated that the rotatable shaft 100 could take any suitable shape. Thus, in some embodiments, a cross section view perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the rotatable shaft 100 may present a square, octagonal, hexagonal, or any other desired shape in some embodiments.In an example embodiment, the rotatable shaft 100 may include a sprocket 110, which may couple to a chain (not shown) that can be selectively coupled to the engine (e.g., engine 30 of FIG. 1) of the tiller 10 for rotation of the rotatable shaft 100. For example, a clutch may be engaged in order to transfer engine rotation to the rotatable shaft 100 via movement of the chain being coupled to the rotatable shaft 100 by the sprocket 110. In this example, the sprocket 110 is located at a center portion of the rotatable shaft 100. However, it is not necessary that the sprocket 110 be centrally located in all embodiments. Thus, the sprocket 110 could be disposed spaced apart from the center of the rotatable shaft 100 or even at or near an end of the rotatable shaft 100. Furthermore, in some embodiments, multiple sprockets and corresponding multiple chains may be employed.In some embodiments, the rotating assembly 50 may include multiple sub-assemblies. In the example of FIGS. 2 and 3, the rotating assembly 50 includes one sub-assembly on each side of the sprocket 110 and the sub-assemblies may substantially mirror each other. Each sub-assembly (e.g., a first sub-assembly 120 and a second sub-assembly 130) may further include one or more tine assemblies that may be arranged to engage each other for mutual support such that the engagement occurs proximate to the rotatable shaft 100. For example, a first tine assembly 122 and a second tine assembly 124 may form the first sub-assembly 120. Meanwhile, a third tine assembly 132 and a fourth tine assembly 134 may form the second sub-assembly 130.The tine assemblies may each include one or more tine sets. For example, the first tine assembly 122 includes a single tine set formed by a single elongate member being extended radially outward away from the rotatable shaft 100. The single tine set forming the first tine assembly 122 may include bent portions forming teeth at opposing ends of the tine set, with the bent portions being bent outwardly relative to the center of the rotatable shaft 100 at which the sprocket 110 is located. Meanwhile, the second tine assembly 124 includes two tine sets, each of which is formed by a respective single elongate member being extended radially outward away from the rotatable shaft 100. Each of the tine sets forming the second tine assembly 124 may include bent portions forming teeth at respective opposing ends of the tine sets. In this example, one of the tine sets may have teeth bent outwardly away from the direction of the sprocket 110, while the other one of the tine sets may have teeth bent inwardly toward the direction of the sprocket 110.As indicated above, the second sub-assembly 130 may substantially mirror the first sub-assembly 120 so the corresponding structures of the third tine assembly 132 and the fourth tine assembly 134 may mirror the description above with the third tine assembly 132 mirroring the second tine assembly 124 and the fourth tine assembly 134 mirroring the first tine assembly 122.In an example embodiment, the elongate members forming the tine assemblies (e.g., first tine assembly 122, second tine assembly 124, third tine assembly 132, and fourth tine assembly 134) may each extend radially outwardly from a sleeve portion that may engage or otherwise lie proximate to the rotatable shaft 100 when the respective sub-assemblies are operational. Moreover, in some cases, at least the portion of the elongate members forming the tine assemblies that contact the respective sleeve portions may extend substantially perpendicularly away from the corresponding sleeve portions. As shown in FIGS. 2 and 3, the elongate member of the first tine assembly 122 may extend radially away from sleeve portion 126 while elongate members of the second tine assembly 124 extend radially away from sleeve portion 128. The elongate members of the third tine assembly 132 extend radially away from sleeve portion 136 while the elongate member of the fourth tine assembly 134 extends radially away from sleeve portion 138.The sleeve portions (126, 128, 136, 138) may be sized such that an inner diameter thereof is large enough to provide a relatively tight fit with the rotatable shaft 100 when the sleeve portions are inserted onto the rotatable shaft 100. Thus, the inner diameter of the cylindrical sleeve portions may be slightly larger than the outer diameter of the rotatable shaft 100. Accordingly, the sleeve portions may be enabled to slide onto and off of the rotatable shaft 100 relatively easily, but provide a relatively snug fit therewith when the rotatable shaft 100 is fitted with any of the sleeve portions. As such, when being slid onto the rotatable shaft 100, the sleeve portions may generally be able to move freely in an axial direction until they reach some structural limit upon their movement axially. However, the sleeve portions may not have significant freedom to move radially.In order to limit movement of the sleeve portions in the axial direction, and substantially fix the tine sub-assemblies in place for operation of the tiller 10 (and rotation of the rotatable shaft 100), inner and outer fixing members may be provided at corresponding portions of the rotatable shaft 100. In an example embodiment, a first inner fixing member 140 may be provided to set a limit for movement of the first sub-assembly 120 along the axial direction toward the sprocket 110. Meanwhile, a second inner fixing member 142 may be provided to set a limit for movement of the second sub-assembly 130 along the axial direction toward the sprocket 110 on the opposite side of the sprocket 110 relative to the first sub-assembly 120. In particular, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be provided along the rotatable shaft 100 at positions that are equidistant from the center of the rotatable shaft 100 (and the sprocket 110 in this example) on opposite sides thereof. The second tine assembly 124 may be inserted onto the rotatable shaft 100 and slid inwardly toward the center (and the sprocket 110) until the sleeve portion 128 contacts the first inner fixing member 140. Meanwhile, the third tine assembly 132 may be inserted onto the rotatable shaft 100 and slid inwardly toward the center (and the sprocket 110) until the sleeve portion 136 contacts the second inner fixing member 142.As shown in FIG. 3, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be removable in some embodiments. For example, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be removable pins configured to pass through a receiving orifice that is formed through the rotatable shaft along a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis of the rotatable shaft 100. To facilitate alternate fixing and removal of the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142, the removable pins may have a head at one end that is larger than the diameter of the receiving orifice and a locking device such as a cotter pin and/or the like provided to be received by an orifice at the opposite end thereof to prevent removal of the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 when the pins are installed in their respective receiving orifices and the cotter pins are locked in place at the ends opposite the respective heads. In the example of FIG. 5, the cotter pins are spring type split pins, but any suitable alternative including any other type of locking device may be employed. Moreover, in some embodiments, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may not be removable. Instead, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be embodied as fixed structures disposed on the surface of the rotatable shaft 100 to catch, lock, fix, or otherwise hold the corresponding sleeve portion of the tine assembly that is provided proximate thereto. In some alternative embodiments, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be embodied as fixed detents, raised surfaces and/or the like that may be fixed on the rotatable shaft 100.In some embodiments, not only may the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 prevent movement of the tine assemblies along the rotatable shaft 100 axially, but they may also facilitate holding the respective tine assemblies in place to prevent radial motion thereof when the rotatable shaft 100 turns. This may prevent the sleeve portions from slipping when the rotatable shaft 100 turns. Although prevention of radial motion may be provided by using a shape other than a cylindrical shape for the rotatable shaft 100 (e.g., a square, octagonal, or hexagonal), when the cylindrically shaped rotatable shaft 100 is employed, the first and second inner fixing members 140 and 142 may be employed to assist in prevention of rotation or slippage of the sleeve portions.In an example embodiment, the sleeve portion 128 of the second tine assembly 124 may have a key slot 150 disposed at one end thereof. The key slot 150 may be configured to engage the first inner fixing member 140 to prevent rotation of the second tine assembly 124 when the rotatable shaft 100 turns. Likewise, the sleeve portion 136 of the third tine assembly 132 may include a key slot 152 disposed at one end thereof. The key slot 152 may be configured to engage the second inner fixing member 142 to prevent rotation of the third tine assembly 132 when the rotatable shaft 100 turns.In an example embodiment, the sleeve portions within the same sub-assembly may be keyed or otherwise fitted together so that they are enabled to be held in place relative to one another when they are installed on the rotatable shaft 100. In the example of FIG. 3, the sleeve portion 126 of the first tine assembly 122 may include a first engagement portion 160 that is configured to fit together with a second engagement portion 162 of the sleeve portion 128 of the second tine assembly 124. In this example, the first engagement portion 160 includes an extended portion that extends in an axial direction farther than a corresponding retracted portion on the opposite side of the sleeve portion 124. Meanwhile, the second engagement portion 162 is shaped such that its extended portion fits with the retracted portion of the first engagement portion 160 and the retracted portion of the second engagement portion 162 fits with the extended portion of the first engagement portion 160 so that a relatively tight fit between the two sleeve portions may be provided when they are proximate to each other on the rotatable shaft 100. Although FIGS. 2 and 3 show the first and second engagement portions 160 and 162 having relatively smooth transitions between their respective extended and retracted portions, it should be appreciated that the extended and retracted portions may have sharper angles defining them in some alternative embodiments.With respect to the first sub-assembly 120, it should be appreciated that when the sleeve portion 128 of the second tine assembly 124 is installed on the rotatable shaft 100 to the point where the key slot 150 engages the first inner fixing member 140, the second tine assembly 124 will be prevented from sliding or rotating radially, and will be prevented from moving any further in the axial direction toward the sprocket 110. However, the second tine assembly 124 may be moved axially away from the sprocket 110. Moreover, after the engagement between the key slot 150 and the first inner fixing member 140 is broken, the second tine assembly 124 may also rotate on the rotatable shaft 100.When the key slot 150 engages the first inner fixing member 140, and the first tine assembly 122 is brought into contact with the second tine assembly 124, the first engagement portion 160 and the second engagement portion 162 may contact or engage each other. Engagement of the first and second engagement portions 160 and 162 may prevent the first tine assembly 122 from moving axially inward toward the sprocket 110 and prevent the first tine assembly 122 from rotating relative to the rotatable shaft 100. However, unless the end of the sleeve portion 126 of the first tine assembly 122 that is opposite with respect to the first engagement portion 160 (i.e., the distal end of the first tine assembly 122, which is also the distal end of the first sub-assembly 120) is fixed in some way, the first tine assembly 122 (and thereafter also the second tine assembly 124) may be moved away from the sprocket 110 along the axial direction and perhaps be removed from the rotatable shaft 100.It should be further noted that when the distal end of the first tine assembly 122 is not fixed, enablement for relatively easy removal of the first tine assembly 122 (and if desired also the second tine assembly 124) may allow the operator to remove the tine assemblies for cleaning and/or maintenance. Thus, for example, if roots, mud or other material foul the tine assemblies, the operator may be enabled to easily remove the tine assemblies to clean them. However, some embodiments may further enable the distal end of the first tine assembly 122 to be selectively locked using a mechanism that can be removed by the operator without any requirement for tools.As shown in FIGS. 2 and 3, the distal end of the first tine assembly 122 may be provided with a mechanism to enable selective locking of the entire first sub-assembly 120 onto the rotatable shaft 100. The second sub-assembly 130 may have a similar mechanism for enabling selective locking thereof as well. The mechanism for selective locking and unlocking of the sub-assemblies of the rotating assembly 50 may include a removable pin disposed at the distal ends of each respective sub-assembly. The removable pin may engage a locking slot at the distal end of each respective sub-assembly.In the example of FIGS. 2 and 3, the first sub-assembly 120 may include a locking slot 170 that is disposed at the distal end of the sleeve portion 126 of the first tine assembly 122. The locking slot 170 may be configured to receive a removable locking pin 172 that may be configured to fit through a receiving opening proximate to a distal end of the rotatable shaft 100. When the locking pin 172 is installed into the receiving opening, the locking pin 172 may engage the locking slot 170 to prevent axial motion of the first tine assembly 122 (and the second tine assembly 124) away from the sprocket 110. The engagement between the locking pin 172 and the locking slot 170 may further facilitate, in combination with the engagement between the key slot 150 and the first inner fixing member 140, holding of the first and second tine assemblies 122 and 124 to prevent sliding when the rotatable shaft 100 turns. Thus, the engagement between the locking pin 172 and the locking slot 170 and the engagement between the key slot 150 and the first inner fixing member 140 may cause the first sub-assembly 120 to move with the rotatable shaft 100.As shown in FIG. 3, the locking slot 170 may have similar characteristics to those described above for the key slot 150. Similarly, the locking pin 170 may have a similar structure and similar characteristics to those described above in relation to the depicted embodiment of the first inner fixing member 140. Accordingly, the locking pin 170 may be a pin configured to pass through a receiving opening disposed proximate to a distal end of the rotatable shaft 100 so that the locking pin 170 is relatively easily accessible to an operator at a side of the tiller 10. A head of the locking pin 170 may prevent the locking pin 170 from passing through the receiving opening. However, the other end of the locking pin 170 may include an orifice through which a locking device such as, for example, cotter pin 174 and/or the like may be provided. When the cotter pin 174 (e.g., a spring type split pin) is removed by the operator, without needing tools, the locking pin 170 may then be removable from the receiving opening to allow removal of the first tine assembly 122 from the rotatable shaft 100. In the depicted embodiment, the receiving slots may all pass through the rotatable shaft parallel to each other. However, other orientations are also possible.Some embodiments may therefore enable easy removal of the sub-assemblies of the rotating assembly 50 to clear fouling thereof. However, as indicated above, tine sets of the rotatable assembly 50 may be constructed and/or formed in various different ways. Thus, for example, some tine sets may be tailored for use with corresponding specific soil types or soil conditions. By providing a relatively easy way to remove tine assemblies, some example embodiments may enable operators to change to a tine assembly that is suited for current conditions without requiring the use of tools or any complex mechanical operations. Additionally or alternatively, the tine sets could be removed and installed in reverse for interchangeable operation regardless of the style of tiller used (e.g., rear or front tiller).In an example embodiment, one or more sets of tines may be affixed to a hollow shaft (e.g., the sleeve portions 126, 128, 136, 138). The hollow shaft may be slidable over a rotatable shaft to form a rotating assembly for working ground responsive to operation of a tiller when the rotating assembly is selectively coupled to an engine of the tiller. The rotatable shaft may be configured to turn when the rotation assembly is selectively coupled to the engine. The one or more sets of tines may extend radially outward from the respective tine assemblies. In some embodiments, the rotating assembly includes at least a first tine assembly and a second tine assembly and the first and second tine assemblies each include a respective sleeve portion defining the hollow shaft. In such an embodiment, the first and second tine assemblies may be configured for engagement with each other at adjacent ends of the respective sleeve portions. In some cases, an end of the first tine assembly that is opposite the second tine assembly engages an inner fixing member disposed on the rotatable shaft to prevent rotation of the first tine assembly relative to the rotatable shaft. In some cases, a key slot may be disposed in a sleeve portion of the first tine assembly at the end of the first tine assembly that is opposite the second tine assembly and the key slot may engage the inner fixing member. In an example embodiment, inner fixing member includes a head at one end thereof, and receives a removable locking device such as a cotter pin at an opposite end thereof. The inner fixing member may pass entirely through the rotatable shaft and the sleeve portion of the first tine assembly. In some cases, an end of the second tine assembly that is opposite the first tine assembly includes a locking slot configured to engage a locking pin responsive to insertion of the locking pin into a receiving opening disposed at an end portion of the rotatable shaft. In such an example, the locking pin includes a head at one end thereof, and receives a locking device such as a cotter pin at an opposite end thereof. The cotter pin may be removable without tools (e.g., a spring type split pin). In some cases, any or all of the modifications describe above may be employed together or separately. Moreover, in some cases, the modification (together or separate) may further include provision of the tine assemblies so that they are alternately fixable and releasable relative to the rotatable shaft without requiring a tool. Furthermore, in some cases, the rotatable shaft may be selectively coupled to the engine via a sprocket disposed at a center of the rotatable shaft, and a plurality of tine assemblies may be provided on each side of the sprocket to form the rotating assembly. In an example embodiment, rotation of the hollow shaft relative to the rotatable shaft is prevented when the hollow shaft is installed onto the rotatable shaft, and movement of the hollow shaft along an axis of the rotatable shaft is alternately enabled and disabled.FIG. 4 illustrates a block diagram of a method of providing a tiller with removable tine assemblies according to an example embodiment. The method may include providing selective coupling between an engine of the tiller and a rotatable shaft on which a rotating assembly that works ground over which the tiller passes responsive to rotation of the rotatable shaft at operation 200. The method may further include providing a sleeve portion of the rotating assembly to receive the rotatable shaft at operation 210. The sleeve portion may have one or more sets of tines extending radially outward therefrom. The method may further include enabling one end of the sleeve portion to be fixed relative to the rotatable shaft and an opposite end of the rotatable shaft to be selectively fixed to the rotatable shaft such that the sleeve portion is alternately fixable and releasable relative to the rotatable shaft without requiring a tool at operation 220.Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages, benefits or solutions to problems are described herein, it should be appreciated that such advantages, benefits and/or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments, but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus, any advantages, benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical, required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSUREField of the DisclosureThe disclosure relates to planting apparatuses and more particularly pertains to a new planting apparatus for providing a simplified way of planting seeds.SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSUREAn embodiment of the disclosure meets the needs presented above by generally comprising an elongated tape. A plurality of seeds is couplable to the tape. The seeds extend along a longitudinal axis of the tape when the seeds are coupled to the tape.There has thus been outlined, rather broadly, the more important features of the disclosure in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood, and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are additional features of the disclosure that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.The objects of the disclosure, along with the various features of novelty which characterize the disclosure, are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe disclosure will be better understood and objects other than those set forth above will become apparent when consideration is given to the following detailed description thereof. Such description makes reference to the annexed drawings wherein:FIG. 1 is a top front side perspective view of a seed planting apparatus according to an embodiment of the disclosure.FIG. 2 is an exploded top front side perspective view of an embodiment of the disclosure.FIG. 3 is a cross-layeral view of an embodiment of the disclosure taken along line 3-3 of FIG. 1.FIG. 4 is a top front side perspective view of an embodiment of the disclosure in use.FIG. 5 is a side view of an embodiment of the disclosure showing one method of constructing the roll of tape.FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram showing a method of preparing seeds within an area of prepared soil.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTWith reference now to the drawings, and in particular to FIGS. 1 through 6 thereof, a new planting apparatus embodying the principles and concepts of an embodiment of the disclosure and generally designated by the reference numeral 10 will be described.As best illustrated in FIGS. 1 through 6, the seed planting apparatus 10 generally comprises an elongated tape 12. The tape 12 is positionable to form a roll 14. A free end 16 of the tape 12 is extendable outwardly away from the roll 14. The tape 12 includes a plurality of layers 18 including an upper layer 20, a lower layer 22 and a medial layer 24 coupled to and positioned between the upper layer 20 and the lower layer 22. Each of the plurality of layers 18 is comprised of a biodegradable material 26 such as biodegradable paper or the like. The upper layer 20 has a top surface 28 and a bottom surface 30. The lower layer 22 has a top surface 29 and a bottom surface 31. Similarly, the medial layer 24 has a top surface 33 and a bottom surface 35. The medial layer 24 has a plurality of spaced holes 32 positioned therein. The holes 32 are aligned in a row 34 extending along the longitudinal axis of the tape 12. Each of the holes 32 may be evenly spaced from adjacently positioned ones of the holes 32.A first adhesive 36 is positioned on the bottom surface 30 of the upper layer 20. A second adhesive 38 is positioned on the top surface 29 of the lower layer 22. A plurality of seeds 40 is couplable to the tape 12 using each of the first adhesive 36 and the second adhesive 38. This allows the free end 16 of the tape 12 to be rolled outwardly without causing any seeds 40 to detach from the tape 12. The seeds 40 extend along a longitudinal axis of the tape 12 when the seeds 40 are coupled to the tape 12. Each of the seeds 40 is positionable in an associated one of the holes 32 to help retain the seeds 40 on the tape 12. The holes 32 are sized according to the particular type of seed 40 being planted. In particular, the seeds 40 may have a size and shape such that a top 42 of each of the seeds 40 defines an associated outward projection 44 in the upper layer 20 when the seeds 40 are coupled to the tape 12. Similarly, the holes 32, and thus the seeds 40, are spaced apart according to the particular type of seed 40 being planted, taking into account the expected size of the plant at full maturity and any seed planting specifications. The seeds 40 are completely sealed within their associated areas on the tape 12.As shown in FIG. 5, one method of constructing the roll 14 is to provide a plurality of cylinders 46. The lower layer 22 and the medial layer 24 are rotated around each of the cylinders 46. The upper layer 20 is rotated around an associated one of the cylinders 46 such that the upper layer 20 is attached to the medial layer 24 only after the second adhesive 38 couples the seeds 40 to the tape 12. A container 48 having a vibrating unit is provided. The seeds 40 are positionable in the container 48. As the container 48 and the seeds 40 vibrate, the second adhesive 38 couples the seeds 40 to the tape 12.In use, the apparatus 10 provides for a method 52 of planting seeds 40 within an area of prepared soil 50. A first step 54 is providing the apparatus 10 as described above. Another step 56 is inserting a first stake 58 through the tape 12 proximate the free end 16 of the tape 12 to anchor the tape 12 into the area of prepared soil 50. Still another step 60 is rolling the tape 12 outwardly until the entire roll 14 is unrolled, as shown in FIG. 4. A further step 62 is inserting a second stake 64 into the tape 12 proximate the end 17 of the tape 12 opposite the free end 16 of the tape 12 to anchor the tape 12 into the area of prepared soil 50. A final step 66 is burying the tape 12, and thus the seeds 40, within the area of prepared soil 50 in a conventional manner so that the seeds 40 will be allowed to germinate. The biodegradable nature of the tape 12 ensures that the tape 12 will not interfere with growth of the seeds 40. In this manner, the apparatus 10 allows a person to quickly and easily plant rows 34 of seeds 40 instead of having to plant each seed 40 individually.With respect to the above description then, it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of an embodiment enabled by the disclosure, to include variations in size, materials, shape, form, function and manner of operation, assembly and use, are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art, and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by an embodiment of the disclosure.Therefore, the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the disclosure. Further, since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the disclosure to the exact construction and operation shown and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the disclosure.
RELATED APPLICATIONSThis patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/776,285, filed on Feb. 25, 2013, which claims the benefit of priority, under 35 U.S.C. §119(e), to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/661,181, filed on Jun. 18, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to metering devices for an agricultural implement for applying a field input, for example pneumatically delivered granular product including seed or fertilizer or sprayed liquid product including fertilizer and the like, to an agricultural field in which the rate of application of the dispensers of one section of the implement can be collectively varied in relation to the rate of application of the dispensers of a different section of the implement frame.BACKGROUNDWhen supplying an input product to an agricultural field, for example seed or fertilizer with air seeding implements, or various liquid products with an agricultural sprayer, the input product is typically applied evenly across a width of the frame of the implement. The usual distribution pattern of an implement across an agricultural field is to pass along the field in longitudinal rows with the rows being connected to one another by 180° curved sections joining the ends of adjacent ones of the rows. At the outside of the curve however the implement passes much more ground than the inner portion of the curved section such that when the product is evenly dispersed across the width of the frame, the product is applied to the field at a rate which is too dense at the inside of the curved section and too sparse at the outside of the curved section.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to one aspect of the invention there is provided an implement for applying an input product to an agricultural field, the implement comprising:a frame arranged to be supported for movement across the field in a forward working direction in which the frame includes a plurality of designated frame sections;a plurality of product dispensers supported on the frame in association with each designated frame section;a product supply arranged to store the input product therein so as to be supported for movement across the field together with the frame;a plurality of conveying lines communicating between the product supply and respective ones of the product dispensers;a plurality of metering devices in which each metering device is associated with one of the designated frame sections and communicates with at least one main line in communication with the respective conveying lines of the product dispensers associated therewith;the metering devices being arranged to meter the input product therethrough from the product supply to the respective conveying lines at an adjustable rate relative to one another.By providing a separate metering device for each of a plurality of designated frame sections, the dispensing devices of one frame section can be operated at a different rate from the dispensing devices from a different frame section to compensating for different ground speeds at the inner end outer portions of a curved section.Also when passing over an end row of a designated crop area which is less than the full width of the implement frame, the metering device supplying the dispensing devices of corresponding frame sections aligned outside of the crop boundary can be shut off to limit waste and further increase efficiency of input product application.The variable metering can be accomplished by various means. In a seeding implement, metering can be accomplished by providing main pneumatic conveying lines which communicate with the seed tanks by their own respective metering devices or by providing separate tanks in which each tank includes its own respective metering device for metering product into pneumatic conveying lines associated with only one frame section of the overall frame. In each instance the metering devices are operable in response to various speed inputs which are measured or calculated using various means.Alternatively in the instance of a sprayer, metering of the fluid to a centre frame section, a left frame section, and a right frame section can be controlled independently by using separate pumps for the left and right sections relative to the centre section, or by using pressure reducing or throttling type valves to supply one section relative to other sections which allow one section of individual spray nozzles to be adjusted independently of the spray nozzles of another section.In yet further arrangements of agricultural sprayers, a common rate of carrier fluid can be sprayed from all nozzles; however, metering devices are used for metering the chemical concentration of various input products into the main conveying line supplying one section of the frame relative to the main conveying line supplying a different section of the frame.According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a sprayer implement for applying an input product to an agricultural field, the implement comprising:a frame arranged to be supported for movement across the field in a forward working direction in which the frame includes a plurality of designated frame sections;a plurality of product dispensers supported on the frame in association with each designated frame section;a carrier fluid supply arranged to store a carrier fluid therein so as to be supported for movement across the field together with the frame;a plurality of main lines in communication with the carrier fluid supply to receive carrier fluid therefrom in which each main line is only associated with one of the designated frame sections;a plurality of conveying lines, each communicating a respective one of the product dispensers to one of the main lines associated with the respective designated frame section to dispense carrier fluid from the main lines therethrough;a primary product supply arranged to store a primary input product therein so as to be supported for movement across the field together with the frame;a plurality of metering devices in which each metering device is associated with one of the designated frame sections and communicates with at least one main line associated with the designated frame section;the metering devices being arranged to meter the primary input product therethrough at an adjustable rate from the primary product supply into carrier fluid in the respective conveying lines whereby a metered amount of the primary input product is dispensed from the product dispensers in each designated frame section independently of the other frame sections.Various embodiments of the invention will now be described in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1 is a schematic representation of one example of a sprayer implement to which the metering devices of the present invention can be applied.FIGS. 2 through 6 each schematically illustrate one respective embodiment of the metering system of the present invention applied to an agricultural sprayer.FIG. 7 is a schematic representation of one example of an agricultural air seeder to which the metering system of the present invention can be applied.FIGS. 8 through 10 each schematically illustrate one respective embodiment of the metering system of the present invention applied to an agricultural air seeder.FIG. 11 is a schematic representation of an implement according to the present invention which is separated into a plurality of designated frame sections and which calculates a speed input for each designated frame section based on respective speed sensors.In the drawings like characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in the different figures.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONReferring to the accompanying figures there is illustrated an agricultural implement for applying an input product, for example seed, granular fertilizer, liquid fertilizer and the like to an agricultural field. Although various embodiments are described and illustrated herein, the common features of the various embodiments will first be described.In each instance, the agricultural implement 10 generally includes an implement frame 12 which is supported for movement across the ground in a forward working direction either by being supported on driven wheels or being towed by a tractor for example. The implement frame typically stands in a lateral direction perpendicular to the forward working direction and is separated into a plurality of designated frame sections 14. The frame sections may include one or more centre sections 16, one or more left wing sections 18 and one or more right wing sections 20.In some instances, the center sections may be grouped with the winged sections such that the designated frame sections overall only comprise a left section and a right section. In each instance each frame sections extends laterally across a respective portion of the width of the frame so as not to overlap adjacent sections in the lateral direction and such that each designated frame section is positioned in series with the other frame sections in the lateral direction across the width.A plurality of product dispensers 22 are supported on each frame section 14 such that the dispensers within each section are laterally spaced apart from one another and from the dispensers of adjacent sections. Each dispenser 22 is arranged to dispense respective product therethrough in a respective longitudinal row in the forward working direction. All of the dispensers of one designated frame section comprise a respective group of dispensers in which all of the dispensers of one group corresponding to one frame section are arranged to be commonly metered in rate relative to the rate of all dispensers of other groups in other frame sections.The implement further includes an input product supply 24 typically in the form of a tank supporting the input product therein such that it is supported for movement across the field together with the implement frame 12 in the forward working direction. The tank may be supported on its own respective frame towed together with implement frame 12 or may be supported directly on the implement frame.The input product is typically delivered from the product supply by a plurality of main lines 26 in communication with the supply which convey the product from the supply towards the designated frame sections. One or more main lines may be associated with each frame section for directing the product from the supply to one or more manifolds associated with the respective frame sections. The manifolds in turn redirect the supplied input product into a plurality of individual conveying lines 30 in which each conveying line is associated with only one respective product dispenser.A plurality of metering devices 32 are supported with the input product supply 24 to meter the product from the supply into the main lines and the corresponding individual conveying lines to the product dispensers. One metering device 32 is associated with each designated frame section of the implement frame such that all of the product dispensers 22 of one respective frame section are commonly metered together by the respective metering device typically in communication between the product supply 24 and the main lines 26 upstream of the manifolds 28 and the individual conveying lines 30.Each metering device 32 is operable at a rate independently of the other metering devices in response to a respective speed input corresponding to the ground speed of the respective frame section with which the metering device is associated. The speed input is determined for each metering device either by providing a speed sensor 34 on each frame section for directly measuring the speed input for each metering device, or alternatively the speed input for each metering device can be calculated based on various measured inputs. For example, as shown in FIG. 11, one speed sensor may be centrally located to measure the average forward speed of the implement frame with at least one other speed sensor being provided at a laterally spaced location associated with one side section to determine if one side section is moving faster or slower than the central or average ground speed of the implement frame. This comparison permits corresponding calculation of the ground speed of the other side of the frame.Speed calculation may be performed mechanically using a ground engaging wheel with a wheel rotation counter, by radar, or by GPS for example with the measured data being input into a computer controller which then calculates the appropriate speed input for each metering device representing an average forward ground speed of the respective designated frame section with which the metering device is associated and a corresponding metering rate.Turning now to the embodiments of FIGS. 1 through 6, the implement frame in this instance comprises an agricultural sprayer such that the frame comprises a boom supported on a rolling vehicle chassis which also supports the input product supply 24 thereon in the form of a liquid tank. The overall metering system in this instance typically includes one pump 36 supplying an overall flow rate of product to the main lines as measured by a downstream flow rate sensor 38. The conveying lines in this instance comprise pressure fluid conveying lines while the product dispensers comprise nozzles which are spaced apart on the boom from which the product can be sprayed downwardly onto the ground. The frame sections typically comprise one center section 16 or one or more left wing sections with a corresponding number of right wing sections. The centre section is operated at an average rate which is determined by the average forward ground speed and which is the basis for the operation of a primary pump 36 when there is only one primary pump.Turning now more particularly to the embodiment of FIG. 2, in this instance two pumps are provided and each is arranged to be operated at a designated flow rate by adjusting the operating rate based on deviation of the flow rate measured by downstream flow rate sensors 38 from respective set point flow rates. The set point rates are the desired operating rates based on the calculated or measured speed input.In the embodiment of FIG. 2 the main line to the center section is isolated from the other lines and is supplied with its own respective one of the pumps 40 with a flow rate sensor. The center pump 40 functions as the metering system for the main line of the center frame section. A branched line upstream from the center pump 40 communicates with the primary pump 36 supplying all other sections such that the combined flow rate of the centre pump and the primary pump 36 correspond to the overall desired flow rate for all sections during normal operation.A primary manifold 42 downstream from the primary pump 36 splits the flow into a plurality of main lines associated with the plurality of side sections respectively. The metering device 32 of each side section in this instance comprises a suitable valve 44 connected in series with the mainline. The valve may comprise a throttling valve or a pressure reducing valve for example which is operable in response to a measured downstream flow rate sensor so that the flow in one side section can be adjusted relative to another side section while maintaining the overall flow rate consistent and while maintaining the flow rate in center section isolated from the adjusted flow rate of the side sections. Each valve 44 could also comprise a three way valve which allows some flow to be diverted from one side section to another side section.In the embodiment of FIG. 3 the primary pump 36 supplies the overall flow rate upstream from any of the metering devices to supply a primary manifold 42 which separates the line from the primary pump 36 into the individual main lines 26 which in turn supply the respective designed sections of the frame. Each main line in this instance is provided with its own pressure reducing valve 44 which is typically operated by pulse width modulation to maintain flow rate therethrough at a set point rate. The valve is operated to return the rate through the line to the set point rate whenever a downstream flow rate sensor detects that the actual measured rate deviates from the set point rate.The embodiment of FIG. 5 is similar to the embodiment of FIG. 3 in that the primary pump provides a controlled flow rate to a primary manifold 42, however in this instance each of the main lines downstream from the primary manifold pass through a restricted orifice 46 defining part of the metering system of the main lines. The restricted orifices 46 step the pressure down before respective throttling valves 44 downstream from the orifices. The valves 44 define the metering devices in this instance. The throttling valves may be all operated in a partially restricted manner during normal operation with balanced flow such that one side section can be less restricted and another side section more restricted corresponding to outside and inside sections of a curved path for example to vary the flow between sections while maintaining the center section mainline substantially isolated and metered at a constant rate.The embodiment of FIG. 4 may be arranged substantially identically to the embodiment of FIG. 5 with the exception of the metering device of the center section comprising only the restricted orifice 46 to maintain a constant metered flow rate to the center section. The remaining main lines corresponding to all of the side sections may be interconnected downstream from the restricted orifices by pressure balancing lines 48. The metering devices in this instance comprise throttling valves 44 downstream from the pressure balancing lines and the respective orifices 46 such that flow to one side section can be restricted while flow to another side section can be increased in proportion to the restriction to maintain overall flow at a constant rate as in previous embodiments while redirecting flow from one side to an opposing side of the frame.According to the embodiment of FIG. 6, a plurality of primary products 50 in the form of non diluted chemical to be applied to a field can be independently metered in concentration relative to a carrier fluid dispensed through the conveying lines. In this instance a main tank 52 of the sprayer comprises a carrier fluid supply connected by main lines 26 to the individual conveying lines 30 and subsequently the individual dispensers 22 substantially in the usual manner by supplying the carrier fluid therethrough from a primary pump 36 with an associated flow rate sensor 38.Each primary product 50 includes its own product tank 54 which is connected to and supplies respective metering devices 32 associated with each main line of the carrier fluid and associated with each primary product. One metering device is thus associated with each primary product of each main line. Accordingly when there are two primary products as in the illustrated embodiment for communication with three main lines a total of 6 metering devices are used for metering each primary product into each main line.Each metering device comprises a metered injector which is operable at a specified injection rate so as to be arranged to inject a metered amount of the primary product into the carrier fluid conveyed through the respective main line of a respective designated frame section independently of the other metering devices relating to other primary product or other main lines. The amount of carrier fluid remains constant in this instance but the concentration of primary products is varied so as to remain substantially constant within each center section, but can be increased or decreased in the side sections corresponding to inner or outer portions of a curved path, or all maintained at a constant concentration during normal longitudinal movement of the sprayer.Turning now to embodiments of FIGS. 7 through 10 the implement in this instance comprises an air seeder such that the product supply comprises one or more tanks supported on a seed cart on wheels towed separately from the implement frame which comprises an air drill frame. The air drill frame includes pneumatic main lines and conveying lines for supplying particulate material to respective dispenser tubes of the dispensers. Each dispenser comprises a cultivator shovel or disc for forming a respective furrow with which the dispenser tube is aligned for depositing the metered particulate material therethrough into the furrow.The product supplies typically include respective hopper bottoms 58 which direct the particulate material therein downwardly to respective metering wheels which define the metering devices. The metering wheels typically comprise wheels with axially oriented channels about the outer surface at circumferentially spaced positions for metering an amount of particulate material received in the channels from the tank thereabove to the pneumatic main lines below at an adjustable rate depending upon the rate of rotation of the metering devices.Turning now particularly to the embodiment of FIG. 8, the frame in this instance is divided into only two side sections corresponding to a left section and a right section. A single metering wheel is provided within a common tank which is split into a left section wheel and a right section wheel arranged to be rotated at independent rates for independently metering product to main lines therebelow associated with the left side sections or right side sections respectively. In the embodiment of FIG. 8 the seed cart is supported on laterally spaced apart left and right wheels 60 such that each section of the metering wheel defining one of the metering devices 32 is coupled by a suitable linkage to the respective one of the two wheels 60 of the cart so that the rotation of the metering device is proportional to the respective wheel with which it is associated. When passing through a curved section one wheel will thus rotate faster than the other so that the corresponding section of the metering wheel will rotate faster resulting in more product being metered to the side of the frame with a greater forward ground speed.Turning now to the embodiment of FIG. 9 each separate tank on a seed cart may be designated into a greater number of individual metered sections by separating a bottom of the tank into a plurality of separate hopper bottoms which commonly communicate with a common tank area thereabove. Each separate hopper bottom 58 permits a split metering wheel to be supported therein comprising two axially abutted sections of wheel rotated about a common axis at independent rates. Each separate section of metering wheel defines a respective metering device 32 in communication with a respective main line. Each section of metering wheel is driven to rotate at its respective set rate proportional to its respective input speed determined by the computer controller by a respective control 64 which controls the rate of that section of the metering wheel which in turn controls the rate delivered to the main line and thus the rate to all of the product dispensers of the respective designated frame section associated therewith. In the illustrated embodiment two hopper bottoms of a common tank are provided with two sections of metering wheel within each hopper bottom such that four independent metering devices 32 independently meter product from a common tank to four independent main lines directed towards different sections of the frame. The different sections may include two left side sections and two right side sections, or two center sections and one left section and one right section as examples.Turning now to the embodiment of FIG. 10, in further arrangements, the product supply 24 may comprise a plurality of individual tanks 66 on the seed cart in which each tank is provided with its own respective metering device 32 associated only with that tank for communication with only main lines associated with one common frame section of the implement frame. In this instance each tank is only associated with one frame section such that the metering system of that tank only meters product to the designated frame section. By operating the metering systems of the different tanks independently of one another, independent metering is again provided to different sections of the implement frame.Since various modifications can be made in my invention as herein above described, and many apparently widely different embodiments of same made within the spirit and scope of the claims without department from such spirit and scope, it is intended that all matter contained in the accompanying specification shall be interpreted as illustrative only and not in a limiting sense.
FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to the field of multi-compartment air seeding systems, where the compartments can be used to selectively supply different agricultural materials to specific metering assemblies and air streams based on volume considerations and crop requirements. More particularly, the present invention is directed to an improved collector/distribution assembly comprising an air stream selector device for selectively diverting material to one air stream or another.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn many agricultural applications, different particulate materials such as seed, fertilizer, inoculates and other seed treatments are applied to a field in controlled amounts at simultaneous or different times. Strictly controlled rates of application are often critical to optimize crop yield and to efficiently make use of the applied particulate material. To apply these types of agricultural particulate materials in controlled amounts, conventional systems are generally comprised of a tank for containing the particulate material, and a metering device. In these systems, the metering device receives the particulate material from the tank, and meters and delivers this material at a controlled rate to the soil.Air seeders are commonly used to apply agricultural particulate material and are often comprised of a wheeled or tracked seed cart that includes one or more frame-mounted tanks for holding seed or fertilizer or both. This type of seeder also generally comprises a metering system used to dispense particulate material from the tanks and a pneumatic distribution system for delivering the products from the tanks to the soil.Several different types of air seeders are available, including double shoot air seeders and triple shoot air seeders. Double shoot air seeders are often used to deposit both fertilizer and seed into the soil in a single pass. Generally, double shoot air seeders comprise a collector/distribution assembly positioned below each product tank (i.e., seed tank and fertilizer tank), each collector/distribution assembly having at least a pair of vertically spaced loading zones, i.e., an upper loading zone and a lower loading zone. Each loading zone has its own air stream passing transversely therethrough for delivering either the seed or the fertilizer to the furrowing elements. The furrowing elements are generally arranged to deposit the seed and fertilizer into the ground at slightly different locations, to prevent too much fertilizer from being in contact with the seed in the early stages of seed growth.Generally, a diverter mechanism is used to dictate which loading zone will be in use, i.e., which loading zone will be open and which loading zone will be closed. In U.S. Pat. No. 6,834,599, the diverter mechanism comprises a series of diverter flaps that are actuated with an externally mounted handle. In U.S. Pat. No. 6,283,679, the diverter mechanism comprises a horizontally adjustable slide having two positions to divert product into either an upper or lower receiving air stream.However, the aforementioned designs either require a complex multitude of diverter valves with a complex linkage between valves so that all can be adjusted at once or a slide mechanism which may result in only partial coverage of a particular loading zone. It is also important for a farmer to be able to completely close off one air stream when metering into the other, to avoid unwanted mixing of products in the air streams. Thus, when using a multitude of diverter valves, they all must be aligned properly and linkages adjusted and set carefully in order to ensure that one air stream is sealed off from the other.Also, with the prior art diverter designs, there is a tendency to have air leaking between air streams due to the difficulty of getting the internal flaps set properly. Thus, there is a need for a diverter system that will maintain isolation between the pairs of air distribution systems and accomplish true separation of the air streams.Furthermore, the collector/distribution assemblies described in the prior art generally require a separate element (e.g., clean out floor 70 of U.S. Pat. No. 6,834,599), which needs to be removed for clean out of the collector/distribution assembly. The present invention combines selection and clean out in a single selector device which is simple to operate and avoids unwanted mixing.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention may be used in a variety of air seeding systems and is particularly useful for systems having a plurality of product supply tanks useful for holding products such as such as seed, fertilizer, inoculates and other seed treatments. In this embodiment, each product supply tank will have a collector/distribution assembly, which assembly is generally positioned beneath each supply tank, for collecting product from the tank and distributing product through one air stream or another. It is understood, however, that a single tank having a plurality of separate compartments, which can be of the same or different size, and each compartment can contain a variety of agricultural particulate material such as seed, fertilizer, inoculates or other seed treatments, can also be used. In this embodiment, a collector/distribution assembly would be positioned beneath each tank compartment. The air seeding system can take the form of a cart that can be towed by a variety of agricultural vehicles such as a tractor.The present invention discloses a selector device for use with a collector/distribution assembly comprising a housing having an open top and an open bottom and comprising at least one pair of loading zones, each loading zone having an air stream passing transversely therethrough, for delivering product to a seeding apparatus comprising a plurality of furrowing elements, typically seed knives and fertilizer knives, for depositing seed and/or fertilizer into the soil. In one embodiment, the at least one pair of loading zones are substantially side by side, thereby comprising a right loading zone and a left loading zone. The selector device comprises a shaped diverter which can be positioned at the bottom of the housing to close off one of the at least one pair of loading zones thereby diverting product to the other of the pair of loading zones. The selector device thus acts to both seal the bottom of the collector/distribution assembly as well as to divert product to one loading zone or the other. The simplicity of the design allows for consistent separation of the air streams due to the fact that there are no moving parts.Thus, in one aspect, an air stream selector device for use in a collector/distribution assembly, the collector/distribution assembling having at least one section, the at least one section having a top and a bottom and a pair of side by to side loading zones, a left loading zone and a right loading zone, and the at least one section operable to receive a product from a product supply tank into the left loading zone and the right loading zone and distribute the product to an air seeder, is provided, the air stream selector device comprising:a first side wall and a second side wall; anda shaped diverter positioned between the first and second side walls;wherein the air stream selector device is adapted to be operably attached to the bottom of an individual section and the shaped diverter is shaped to prevent product from collecting in either the right loading zone or the left loading zone of the individual section, whereby when the air stream selector device is attached to the bottom of the individual section in a first orientation, it prevents product from collecting in the right loading zone and when the air stream selector device is attached to the bottom of the individual section in a second orientation, it prevents product from collecting in the left loading zone.In another aspect, a collector/distribution assembly is provided for use with a product supply tank having a bottom outlet, comprising:
a housing having a front wall, a back wall and two side walls, said housing having an open top for receiving product from the bottom outlet of the product supply tank, an open bottom and at least one pair of side by side loading zones comprising a left loading zone and a right loading zone;a number of left pneumatic conveying lines for receiving air, each left pneumatic conveying line operably associated with a corresponding left loading zone to allow air to pass into, through and out of the left loading zone;a number of right pneumatic conveying lines for receiving air, each right pneumatic conveying line operably associated with a corresponding right loading zone to allow air to pass into, through and out of the right loading zone; andat least one air stream selector device comprising a shaped diverter operable to be positioned at the bottom of the housing;whereby when the at least one air stream selector device is positioned at the bottom of the housing, the device closes off either the right loading zone or the left loading zone of the at least one pair of side by side loading zones thereby diverting product to the other of the right loading zone or the left loading zone.
In one embodiment, when the air stream selector device is positioned at the bottom of the housing in one orientation, the right loading zone is closed off and when the air stream selector device is positioned at the bottom of the housing in the opposite orientation, the left loading zone is closed off. Thus, depending on the orientation of the air stream selector device, product is directed either to an air stream in a left pneumatic conveying line or to an air stream in a right pneumatic conveying line. The selected pneumatic conveying lines then deliver the product such as seeds or fertilizer to the appropriate furrowing elements for inserting the product into the soil.In one embodiment, the air stream selector device also serves to seal off the bottom of the collector/distributing assembly to prevent loss of product therethrough. In another embodiment, the removal of the air stream selector device allows the clean out of the collector/distributing assembly.In one embodiment, there is a separate air stream selector device for each pair of side by side loading zones. In another embodiment, a number of air stream selector devices corresponding to the same number of side by side loading zones are connected to one another to operate as a single air stream selector device. In one embodiment, a number of air stream selector devices are positioned side by side on a clean out floor so that the air stream selector devices operate as a single air stream selector device and a clean out floor.The ability to reverse the air stream selector device provides for greater flexibility in making use of a product holding tank on a seeding system. For example, in one application, the tank (or compartment) may be used to contain and deliver seed, whereas, in another application, this tank (or compartment) may be used to contain and deliver fertilizer.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe present invention, both as to its organization and manner of operation, may best be understood by reference to the following description, and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the several views, and in which:FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a multi-compartment air seeding system equipped with two collector/distribution assemblies of the present invention.FIG. 2 is an isometric view of a collector/distribution assembly of the present invention having eight pairs of side by side loading zones and having one embodiment of an air stream selector device of the present invention.FIG. 3 is a cut away of a collector/distribution assembly comprising only one pair of side by side loading zones having an air stream selector device inserted in one orientation.FIG. 4 is a cut away of a collector/distribution assembly comprising only one pair of side by side loading zones having an air stream selector device inserted in the opposite orientation of FIG. 3.FIG. 5A is isometric views of another embodiment of a collector/distribution assembly comprising only one pair of side by side loading zones and another embodiment of an air stream selector device which attaches to the bottom of the collector/distribution assembly.FIG. 5B is isometric views of an assembled collector/distribution assembly and air stream selector device of FIG. 5A.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONThe detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various embodiments of the present invention and is not intended to represent the only embodiments contemplated by the inventors. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a comprehensive understanding of the present invention. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.FIG. 1 illustrates an air seeding system 100 comprising a dual material tank 94 having two separate compartments, 96 and 98, for holding two separate products, e.g., particulate materials such as seed or fertilizer. The dual material tank 94 is carried by a frame 36, which can adopt a wide variety of different configurations, so that the air seeding system 100 can be pulled or towed by a variety of different agricultural vehicles such as a tractor. By way of example, compartment 96 may be filled with particulate fertilizer and compartment 98 may be filled with seed. This is a common configuration when using a single pass of the air seeding system to both seed and fertilize.As further shown in FIG. 1, each compartment 96 and 98 is fitted with its own collector/distribution assembly, 37a and 37b, respectively, whereby, in this example, collector/distribution assembly, 37a and 37b further comprise metering devices 35a and 35b, respectively. For example, collector/distribution assembly 37a may be dispensing fertilizer and collector/distribution assembly 35b may be dispensing seed. Compartments 96 and 98 can be tapered downward to help direct the material into their respective collector/distribution assemblies, 37a and 37b. The material can first enter metering assemblies 35a and 35b by gravity to be metered before distribution.The air seeding system 100 further comprises a pneumatic distribution system 92 comprising a plurality of high capacity fans 90 which direct air through a plurality of pipes or conduits, often referred to as primary distribution lines, each of which is operably connected to both collector/distribution assembly 37a and 37b. FIG. 1 only shows two primary distribution lines, pneumatic conveying lines 86 and 88, however, it is understood that the number of pneumatic conveying lines will depend on the size and configuration of the collector/distribution assemblies.FIG. 2 is an isometric view of an embodiment of an eight section collector/distribution assembly 237 and one embodiment of an air stream selector assembly 210 of the present invention. Collector/distribution assembly 237 comprises a housing 259 having a front wall 260, a back wall 262, two side walls, 264a and 264b, an open top 266 and an open bottom 268. Inner dividing walls 269 form the eight sections 238.Each section 238 of collector/distribution assembly 237 comprises a left loading zone 250 and a right loading zone 252, positioned side by side. Section 238 is also referred to as a pair of side by side loading zones. Each loading zone 250, 252 further comprises a pneumatic conveying line for receiving air. For example, left loading zone 250 comprises left pneumatic conveying line 286 and right loading zone 252 comprises right pneumatic conveying line 288. It can be appreciated that pneumatic conveying lines are generally comprised of discontinuous tubing so as to be operably engaged with each of the collector/distribution assemblies.Air stream selector assembly 210 (which is shown in FIG. 2 as being removed from the collector/distribution assembly 237) comprises a number of air stream selector devices 240, each device having a shaped diverter 242 that is shaped such that, when the air stream selector assembly 210 is positioned onto the bottom 268 of the housing 259, the right loading zones 252 are blocked off in such a fashion that product is prevented from being conveyed through the right pneumatic conveying lines 288 of the right loadings zones 252. Thus, product is directed to the left loading zones 250 and through left pneumatic conveying lines 286. In this embodiment, the shaped diverter comprises a substantially U-shaped valley at one end (e.g., left end) and a curved upward slope at the other end (e.g., right end). The U-shaped valley helps to collect the product in the left loading zone for distribution through the left pneumatic conveying lines 286 and the curved upward slope directs product away from the right loading zone and into the U-shaped valley. In one embodiment, the number of air stream selector devices are positioned on a clean out floor 244 so that the air stream selector assembly 210 can act as both a diverter and a clean out assembly.As shown in FIG. 2, air stream selector assembly 210 is oriented such that the shaped diverters 242 prevent flow from the right loading zones 252 to the right pneumatic conveying lines 288. However, in the opposite orientation (i.e., reversed) the shaped diverters 242 prevent flow from the left loading zones 250 to the left pneumatic conveying lines 286. This can be seen more clearly in FIGS. 3 and 4. Thus, in one embodiment, air stream diverter assembly 210 is designed so that it can be oriented in a first position (as shown in FIG. 2) so that the right loading zones are blocked or can be inserted in a second position whereby the left loading zones are blocked. However, it is understood that an operator could have two separate air stream selector assemblies, one for blocking right loading zones and one for blocking left loading zones.FIG. 3 is a cut away of a collector/distribution assembly 337 comprising only one pair of loading zones, left loading zone 350 and right loading zone 352. The air stream selector device 340 in this embodiment comprises a first side wall 390, a second side wall 391, and a shaped diverter 342 positioned between the two side walls, said shaped diverter sized to, in one orientation, prevent the collection of a product in the right loading zone and, in the opposite orientation, prevent the collection of a product in the left loading zone.In one embodiment, the air stream selector device is a substantially unitary body, whereby a substantially tubular cavity 392 having a diameter of similar or same dimensions as the inner diameter of the pneumatic conveying lines is formed therethrough, beneath the curved upward slope of diverter 342 to allow a second product (or air) to be dispensed therethrough from a second product tank which has its own collector/distribution assembly attached thereto. In this embodiment, the shaped diverter 342 is shaped so that it also forms a U-shaped valley 393 opposite cavity 392. This allows product being dispensed from collector/distribution assembly 337 to flow more readily to and through the corresponding pneumatic conveying line and therefore there is less chance of product accumulating in corners or crevices. In the orientation shown in FIG. 3, the air stream selector device 342 fits onto the bottom of collector/distribution assembly 337 such that the right loading zone 352 is blocked and therefore product in collector/distribution assembly 337 is prevented from being carried through the corresponding right pneumatic conveying line (not shown). In the reverse orientation, as shown in FIG. 4, air stream selector device 340 fits onto the bottom of collector/distribution assembly 337 such that the left loading zone 350 is blocked and therefore product in collector/distribution assembly 337 is prevented from being carried through the corresponding left pneumatic conveying line (not shown).In another embodiment of the present invention, shown in FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B, collector/distribution assembly 437 also comprising only one pair of loading zones, left loading zone 450 and right loading zone 452. The bottom 468 of collector/distribution assembly 437 is fitted with four curved extensions or lips; lips 494a/494b fitted to the right side at the rear and front of the collector/distribution assembly 437, respectively, and lips 495a/495b fitted to the left side at the rear and front of the collector/distribution assembly 437, respectively. In this embodiment, the air stream selector device 440 comprises a first side wall 490, a second side wall 491, and a shaped diverter 442 positioned between the two side walls, said shaped diverter sized to, in one orientation, prevent the collection of a product in the right loading zone (as shown in FIG. 5A) and, in the opposite orientation, prevent the collection of a product in the left loading zone.With further reference to FIG. 5A, in this embodiment, the air stream selector device 440 further comprises a substantially tubular cavity 492 having a diameter of similar or same dimensions as the inner diameter of pneumatic conveying line 486 (or pneumatic conveying line 488 if attached in the opposite orientation), to allow a second product (or air) to be dispensed from a second product tank which has its own collector/distribution assembly attached thereto through pneumatic conveying line 486. The shaped diverter 442 is shaped so that it forms a valley 493 opposite cavity 492. This allows product being dispensed from collector/distribution assembly 437 to flow more readily to and through the corresponding pneumatic conveying line and therefore there is less chance of product accumulating in corners or crevices.In this embodiment, air stream selector device 440 further comprises four curved extensions or lips; lips 498a/498b fitted to the right side at the rear and front of cavity 492, respectively, and lips 499a/499b fitted to the left side at the rear and front of the valley 493, respectively. Thus, when the air stream selector device is attached to the bottom of collector/distribution assembly 437, lips 494a, 494b line up with lips 498a and 498b to form jutting small cylinders to which a connector 472 can be attached. Thus, right pneumatic conveying line 488 can be attached to the assembled collector/distribution assembly 437 and air stream selector device 440 via connector 472. Similarly, lips 495a, 495b line up with lips 499a and 499b to form jutting small cylinders to which a connector 470 can be attached. Thus, left pneumatic conveying line 486 can be attached to the assembled collector/distribution assembly 437 and air stream selector device 440 via connector 472.In the orientation shown in FIG. 5A, when the air stream selector device 442 fitted to the bottom 468 of collector/distribution assembly 437, the right loading zone 452 is blocked and therefore product in collector/distribution assembly 437 is prevented from being carried through the corresponding right pneumatic conveying line 488. Instead, product is directed to the left loading zone 450 to be carried through left pneumatic conveying line 486. In the reverse orientation (not shown) air stream selector device 440 fits onto the bottom of collector/distribution assembly 437 such that the left loading zone 450 is blocked and therefore product in collector/distribution assembly 437 is prevented from being carried through the corresponding left pneumatic conveying line 486. Instead, product is directed to the right loading zone 452 to be carried through right pneumatic conveying line 488.By way of example, in one operation, with reference to FIG. 1, it may be desirable to deposit both seed and fertilizer in a single pass. Thus, compartment 96 may be loaded with seed. In this example, it may be desirable to have the seed directed by an air stream through left pneumatic conveying line 86. For this to occur, an air stream selector device of the present invention is positioned in collector/distribution assembly 37a such that seed cannot travel through the right pneumatic conveying line 88 (see FIG. 3 where right pneumatic conveying line 388 is “blocked” from receiving seed by shaped diverter 342 of air stream selector device 340). Left pneumatic conveyer line 86 can then be connected to a secondary distribution manifold mounted on the seeding tool (not illustrated). Further, compartment 98 may be loaded with fertilizer. Thus, it would be desirable to have the fertilizer directed by an air stream through right pneumatic conveying line 88. For this to occur, an air stream selector device is positioned in collector/distribution assembly 37b such that fertilizer cannot travel through the left pneumatic conveying line 86 (see FIG. 4 where left pneumatic conveying line 386 is “blocked” from receiving fertilizer by shaped diverter 342 of air stream selector device 340). Right pneumatic conveyer line 88 can then be connected to a secondary distribution manifold mounted on the fertilizing tool (not illustrated).The ability to direct material from any compartment or tank through different pneumatic conveyer lines can greatly enhance the efficiency with which individual compartments can be used. For example, an operator may want to use a larger compartment for seeds in one application, while, in another application, this compartment could be used to hold fertilizer. In this manner, a specific compartment is not limited to a specific air stream.While the invention has been described in conjunction with the disclosed embodiments, it will be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to these embodiments. On the contrary, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications and equivalents, which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention. Various modifications will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art, since the generic principles of the present invention have been defined herein specifically to describe air seeding systems.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSI hereby claim benefit under Title 35, United States Code, Section 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/773,882 filed Feb. 22, 2013. This application is a continuation of the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/773,882. The U.S. application Ser. No. 13/773,882 is currently pending and has received a Notice of Allowance. The U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/773,882 is hereby incorporated by reference into this application.STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENTNot applicable to this application.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to vacuum planters and more specifically it relates to a vacuum planter exhaust filtration system for preventing seed treatment particles used in seed planting from entering the atmosphere.2. Description of the Related ArtAny discussion of the related art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an admission that such related art is widely known or forms part of common general knowledge in the field.Vacuum planters are agricultural implements that are used to plant a seed crop in a field. Vacuum planters are desirable over air seeders and conventional planters because they provide for seed singulation resulting in precise placement of individual seeds with even spacing within a field. A vacuum planter operates the opposite of an air seeder because a vacuum pulls seeds to rotating seed plates that have individual vacuum holes that retain the individual seeds until the vacuum is removed from the individual vacuum hole thereby releasing the corresponding seed into a seed tube.A conventional vacuum planter utilizes a fan to create a vacuum utilized to retain the individual seeds on a planting disc in a meter housing (a.k.a. vacuum housing) in a planting unit until being released into a furrow. Some vacuum planters utilize a central hopper that distributes the seed to the individual planting units via pressurized air and some seeders have individual seed hoppers for each of the planting units. Regardless of the type of vacuum planter utilized, the fan has an exhaust port to release the air drawn into the fan from the planting units that is utilized to retain the seed on the planting disc.Most seed utilized for vacuum planters is treated with a seed treatment such as but not limited to talc, seed coating, insecticides, herbicides, antimicrobial treatment, fungicides, fertilizer, growth enhancers, seed coloring and other chemicals. Unfortunately, the air drawn in from the planting units by the fan of a vacuum planter includes particulate material comprised of seed treatment removed from the seed during planting. The particulate material drawn into the fan is then exhausted externally of the vacuum planter via the exhaust port of the fan and is free to contaminate the surrounding environment.European countries have recently linked commonly utilized seed treatment insecticides (e.g. clothianidin, imidacloprid) to harming bees resulting in dramatic drops in bee counts and possibly to colony collapse disorder. It is believed that talc combined with insecticides are blown into the environment by the fan of the vacuum planter where it is mixed with the pollen resulting in exposure to bees feeding on the pollen in the flowers. In addition, the particulate material dispersed into the environment may contaminate standing water near the planting area. Finally, the particulate material being dispersed into the air by the vacuum planter is not desirable to be touched or inhaled by humans.Because of the inherent problems with the related art, there is a need for a new and improved vacuum planter exhaust filtration system for preventing seed treatment particles used in seed planting from entering the atmosphere.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe invention generally relates to a vacuum planter which includes an air filter fluidly positioned between the fan and the planting units of the vacuum planter. The air filter removes the particulate material prior to being exhausted into the surrounding environment by the fan. The air filter utilizes cyclonic separation to separate the particulate material from the contaminated air from the planting units. A particle container collects the removed particulate material and allows for environmentally friendly disposal of the particulate material.There has thus been outlined, rather broadly, some of the features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof may be better understood, and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and that will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto. In this respect, before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction or to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of the description and should not be regarded as limiting.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSVarious other objects, features and attendant advantages of the present invention will become fully appreciated as the same becomes better understood when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout the several views, and wherein:FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating the present invention.FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the communications between the control unit and components of the present invention.FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating the air filter fluidly connected between the fan and the vacuum planter.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONA. Overview.Turning now descriptively to the drawings, in which similar reference characters denote similar elements throughout the several views, FIGS. 1 through 3 illustrate a vacuum planter exhaust filtration system 10, which comprises an air filter fluidly positioned between the fan 20 and the planting units 40 of the vacuum planter 14. The air filter removes the particulate material prior to being exhausted into the surrounding environment by the fan 20. The air filter utilizes cyclonic separation to separate the particulate material from the contaminated air from the planting units 40. A particle container 62 collects the removed particulate material and allows for environmentally friendly disposal of the particulate material.B. Vacuum Planter.The vacuum planter 14 may be comprised of any planter that utilizes air pressure for planting a crop (e.g. corn, sunflowers, soybeans, etc.) in a plurality of rows. The vacuum planter 14 is typically pulled behind a tractor to plant a field with a desired crop. U.S. Pat. No. 6,626,120 to Bogner et al. discloses an exemplary vacuum planter 14 suitable for use within the present invention and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.The vacuum planter 14 includes a plurality of planting units 40 that meter the seed received from a central hopper into furrows. The seed within the central hopper is drawn by a vacuum to each of the planting units 40 via separate seed tubes which is commonly known in the industry. Alternatively, each planting unit 40 may have an individual seed hopper 50 and also potentially a corresponding individual chemical hopper 54 to apply fertilizer. Each of the planting units 40 meters the individual seeds into each corresponding furrow created by utilizing a meter disc within a meter housing (a.k.a. vacuum housing). The meter disc (a.k.a. a seed plate) includes a plurality of vacuum holes that provide a vacuum that retains one seed upon each hole, wherein the meter disc rotates until the vacuum is removed from the hole thereby releasing the seed into a seed tube which is well known with respect to vacuum planters 14.The vacuum planter 14 includes a fan 20 having an intake port 21 and an exhaust port 22. A particle sensor 24 is positioned within the exhaust port 22 of the vacuum planter 14 to determine the level of particulate material remaining in the exhausted air and is in communication with the control unit 12 regarding the same to notify the operator of the tractor. The fan 20 is typically a centrifugal fan 20 but may be comprised of other types of fans commonly utilized for vacuum planters 14. A conventional vacuum planter 14 utilizes the fan 20 to create a vacuum that is utilized to draw seeds to the individual planting units 40 and also retain the individual seeds on a planting disc (a.k.a. seed disc, meter disc) in a meter housing (a.k.a. vacuum housing) in a planting unit 40 until being released into a furrow. Regardless of the type of vacuum planter 14 utilized, the fan 20 has an exhaust port 22 to release the air drawn into the fan 20 from the planting units 40 that is utilized to retain the seed on the planting disc.As illustrated in FIG. 1 of the drawings, the vacuum planter 14 further preferably includes a primary manifold 70 that is fluidly connected to the intake port 21 of the fan 20 via a vacuum conduit 30 (e.g. pipe, flexible hose, etc.). The primary manifold 70 extends along the width of the vacuum planter 14 to provide vacuum pressure to each of the individual planting units 40. Each of the individual planting units is fluidly connected to the primary manifold 70 via a conduit (e.g. pipe, flexible hose, etc.) as illustrated in FIG. 1 of the drawings. For larger vacuum planters 14, two or more primary manifolds 70 may be utilized for corresponding segments of the vacuum planter 14 as illustrated in FIG. 1 of the drawings.C. Primary Air Filter.The primary air filter 60 is fluidly connected to the fan 20 to filter the particulate material (e.g. solid particles, dust, chemical particles, insecticide particles) from a return airflow from the vacuum planter 14 to the fan 20 prior to being exhausted externally of the fan 20. In particular, the primary air filter 60 removes various types of particulate material drawn into the primary manifold 70 by the vacuum pressure such as but not limited to talc, seed coating, insecticides, herbicides, antimicrobial treatment, fungicides, fertilizer, growth enhancers, seed coloring and other chemicals utilized in planting of seed crops.As illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 3 of the drawings, the primary air filter 60 is fluidly positioned between the fan 20 and the planting units 40 of the vacuum planter 14. In particular, the primary air filter 60 is fluidly positioned between the primary manifold 70 and the intake port 21 of the fan 20. The primary air filter 60 is fluidly positioned within the vacuum conduit 30 that fluidly connects the primary manifold 70 and the fan 20 as further illustrated in FIG. 1 of the drawings. As further shown in FIG. 1, if two or more primary manifolds 70 are utilized, a corresponding number of primary air filters 60 are preferably utilized between the same and the fan 20. Alternatively, one primary air filter 60 may receive the vacuum air flow from two or more primary manifolds 70 for cleaning The first segment 32 of the vacuum conduit 30 enters an upper portion of the primary air filter 60 and a second segment 34 of the vacuum conduit 30 exits the upper end of the primary air filter 60 continuing to the fan 20 which draws the air through the primary air filter 60.The primary air filter 60 preferably includes a particle container 62 that receives separated particulate material. The particle container 62 may be attached to the lower end of the primary air filter 60 to receive the particulate material that falls downwardly through a lower opening in the primary air filter 60. The particle container 62 may be periodically removed for environmentally friend disposal of the collected particulate material.The primary air filter 60 preferably does not utilize a media (e.g. fibrous materials) to trap the particulate material. In particular, the primary air filter 60 is preferably comprised of a cyclonic separator that separates the particulate material from the return airflow. U.S. Pat. No. 7,247,180 to Hill discloses an exemplary cyclonic separator suitable for use within the present invention and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.D. Secondary Filter.A secondary filter 64 may be fluidly connected between the primary air filter 60 and the fan 20 to remove any remaining particulate material within the airflow that the primary air filter 60 did not remove as illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 3 of the drawings. The secondary filter 64 is preferably comprised of a media (e.g. fibrous material, pleated paper filter, foam, cotton). The secondary filter 64 may be cleaned and/or replaced periodically as needed.E. Vacuum Conduit.The vacuum conduit 30 includes a first segment 32 fluidly connected between the vacuum planter 14 and the primary air filter 60, and a second segment 34 fluidly connected between the primary air filter 60 and the fan 20 as illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 3 of the drawings. The vacuum conduit 30 may be comprised of any tubular structure capable of transferring airflow under a vacuum pressure without collapsing (e.g. pipe, flexible hose).F. Control Unit.FIG. 2 illustrate the control unit 12 which may be comprised of any electronic device capable of receiving, storing and calculating data (e.g. computer). The control unit 12 is preferably positioned within the cab of the tractor and includes a conventional display to display information relating to vacuum pressure, operation of the fan 20, state of the control valves 52, activation of the alarm 38, display readings from the particle sensor 24 and the like.The control unit 12 is in communication with and receives data from the particle sensor 24 to determine the level of particulate material within the exhaust airflow discharged from the exhaust port 22 of the fan 20. If the level of particulate material exceeds a predetermined level, an alarm 38 (e.g. audible, visual, combination of audible and visual) is activated within the tractor to notify the operator that the functionality of the present invention may be hampered (e.g. the primary filter is not operating properly). In addition, the control unit 12 is in communication with the vacuum gauge 36 which is fluidly connected to the vacuum conduit 30 to measure the vacuum pressure within the vacuum conduit 30. If the vacuum pressure is greater than a predetermined maximum threshold or below a predetermined minimum threshold, the alarm 38 is activated to notify the operator of a potentially undesirable state for the present invention.G. Control Valves.The plurality of seed hoppers 50 and the plurality of chemical hoppers 54 are fluidly connected to the primary manifold 70 by a conduit (e.g. pipe, flexible hose) as illustrated in FIG. 1 of the drawings. The control valves 52 may be comprised of any valve capable of stopping the passage of airflow in a pressurized environment (e.g. solenoid valves, etc.).At least one control valve 52 is fluidly positioned between the hoppers 50, 54 and the primary manifold 70 to open or close a vacuum flow to the hoppers 50, 54. If a central seed hopper 50 is utilized, the same fluid connection to the central seed hopper 50 is utilized except that the vacuum pressure is preferably receive by fluid connection directly to the vacuum conduit 30. FIG. 1 illustrates a plurality of control valves 52 fluidly connected between each of the hoppers 50, 54 and the primary manifold 70. The primary manifold 70 is preferably fluidly connected to upper portions of the hoppers 50, 54 to draw in air contaminated with particulate material entering the air during the filling process.The control valves 52 may be opened or closed by the control unit 12 which is in communication with the control valves 52. The control valves 52 are typically closed when utilizing the vacuum planter 14 for seeding. However, when the operator is filling the hoppers 50, 54 the control valves 52 are preferably opened by the control unit 12 to draw the particulate material that enters the air within the interior of the hoppers 50, 54 during the filling process thereby reducing the amount of particulate material that escapes into the surrounding environment during filling.H. Operation of Preferred Embodiment.In use, the vacuum planter 14 is filled with seed in the central seed hopper 50 or the individual seed hoppers 50 for each of the planting units 40. During the filling of the seed hopper 50 within seed, the control valve 52 fluidly connected to the seed hopper 50 is opened with the fan 20 operating to create a vacuum that draws the particulate material in the air within the seed hopper 50 to the primary air filter 60 for removal before entering the surrounding atmosphere. When filling the chemical hopper 54, the control valve 52 fluidly connected to the chemical hopper 54 is opened with the fan 20 operating to create a vacuum that draws the particulate material in the air within the chemical hopper 54 to the primary air filter 60 for removal before entering the surrounding atmosphere. After the seed hoppers 50 and the chemical hoppers 54 are filled and closed, the controls valves are closed to ensure adequate vacuum pressure within the individual planting units 40. The vacuum pressure is a negative pressure created by the intake port 21 of the fan 20 that draws in air.The vacuum planter 14 is utilized as a conventional vacuum planter 14 to plant seeds within the field. During the planting, particulate material (e.g. talc, insecticide) is removed from the seed as the seed is acquired, retained and released from the seed disc within the planting unit 40. In particular, the vacuum holes in the seed disc receive the removed particulate material from the seed which is then drawn into the primary manifold 70. The particulate material is then drawn by the vacuum pressure through the first segment 32 of the vacuum conduit 30 into the primary air filter 60 to remove a majority of the particulate material from the airflow. It is preferable that the primary air filter 60 remove at least 95% of the particulate material within the airflow. The airflow then passes through a secondary filter 64 to remove a majority of the particulate material not removed by the primary air filter 60. The cleaned air is then drawn into the intake port 21 of the fan 20 and then exhausted through the exhaust port 22 of the fan 20. The particulate sensor determines the level of particulate material and communicates the level to the control unit 12 for display to the operator. The control unit 12 may also be in communication with a level sensor within the particle container 62 of the primary air filter 60 to activate the alarm 38 or provide a notification to the user that the level of particulate material accumulated within the particle container 62 has exceeded a specified level and the particle container 62 needs to be emptied. The particle container 62 may be removed with the particulate material inside environmentally disposed of without contaminating the surrounding environment.Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar to or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials are described above. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety to the extent allowed by applicable law and regulations. In case of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control. The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof, and it is therefore desired that the present embodiment be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Any headings utilized within the description are for convenience only and have no legal or limiting effect.
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61/953,320, filed Mar. 14, 2014, under 35 U.S.C. §119(e).BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to equipment for delivering liquid products, such as fertilizers or pesticides, to and discharging the liquid products at individual rows of an agricultural implement such as a planter.2. Description of the Related ArtPlanters and other row type agricultural implements are commonly outfitted with liquid dispensing systems for distributing liquid agricultural chemicals, such as liquid fertilizer, to each row unit and dispensing the liquid in close proximity to the row unit. Such liquid dispensing systems typically include a tank for holding the liquid, a pump for pumping liquid from the tank, a plurality of branched distribution lines through which the liquid is distributed to a plurality of nozzles or delivery tubes. The liquid is dispersed out of the nozzle or delivery tube onto the field.Precision agriculture techniques sometimes require widely varying amounts of a chemical to be applied in different sections of the same field. For example, the farmer may want to apply 5 gallons per acre (GPA) in one area and apply 35 GPA in another area of the same field. The farmer may also operate at a minimum speed of 4 miles per hour (MPH) in one section, but increase to a maximum speed of 10 MPH in another. This combination of changes in application rate and speed at which the implement traverses the field requires a very large change in liquid flow.The ability to measure variations in the amount of liquid delivered is easily accomplished with existing flow meters. Likewise, pumps can be controlled to deliver the total volume of liquid necessary over a very wide range of total product flow.However, existing systems are not adequate to divide the total flow for an implement (for example a 24 row, 60 foot wide corn planter) down to 24 equal flows to apply to each row or application point the farmer desires. A basic system currently in use to control flow is an orifice disc with an equal size orifice for each application point. The orifice creates back pressure in the liquid distribution tubes then the pressure created produces equal flow through each equal sized orifice. However, fluid dynamics works such that a four-fold increase in pressure is required to gain a two-fold increase in flow. Given that the maximum total pressure is practically limited to under 100 psi with the components typically used in these systems, the maximum flow difference that can be generated by pressure changes is limited. The typical response has been to limit the range of liquid applied to what one orifice can accomplish. Then the farmer can change each orifice disc to a different size if they needed to change their application rate. This process is messy, time consuming and not practical within a single field.There have been improvements on the standard orifice disc. One is to use a spring controlled variable orifice. An example of this type of device is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 7,124,964 to Quy Duc Bui. These devices advertise a wider flow range for a given pressure difference than a standard orifice disc. However, in the field they do not always produce sufficiently equal flows at each row to satisfy the farmer's needs.Another product used to achieve this goal is the fluid flow divider sold by John Blue Company and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,311,716 of Kent R. Jones assigned to John Blue Company. However, these devices are believed to lose row-to-row accuracy at lower application rates.It is also known to use a metering tube to improve upon the traditional orifice disc. This is a tube with a specific inside diameter, that is of a substantial length (four to twelve feet is typical). This provides the same pressure drop function as an orifice to create equal row-to-row distribution. However, due to flow dynamics in a tube versus an orifice, an equal pressure range will produce a greater flow range in the tube versus the orifice disc. This allows the farmer to achieve greater variability in liquid application rates and implement speeds with the metering tube compared to the traditional orifice disc.It is also known to use dual metering tube systems comprising two metering tubes of different internal diameter for each row. A manually operated valve is used in such systems to selectively direct the flow through only the first tube or only the second tube or through both the first and second tubes allowing the operator to achieve wider flow rates through the tubing at each row unit. However, the manual setting of the system requires the operator to correctly assess which selection of tubes is appropriate and may require the operator to manually readjust the valves when the desired application rates change.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention comprises an improvement to dual metering tube systems for use in directing liquid to the row units of an agricultural implement which uses metering tubes of different diameters, a pressure sensor to sense the pressure in a trunk line through which liquid is fed to the metering tubes and a controller for operating one or more valves to selectively direct liquid through only a set of small diameter tubes, only a set of large diameter tubes or both the small and large diameter tubes. Each of the small diameter tubes is paired with a respective one of the large diameter tubes and flow connected to a common outlet associated with a respective row unit.The one or more valves are advanceable between a low flow state in which liquid is only delivered to the set of small diameter tubes, a medium flow state in which liquid is only delivered to the set of large diameter tubes; or a high flow state in which liquid is delivered to both the small diameter tubes and the large diameter tubes. A controller communicates with the pressure sensor and the one or more valves to control the one or more valves to initially position the one or more valves in the low flow state. When the one or more valves are in the low flow state, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor exceeds a maximum set pressure the controller advances the one or more valves to the medium flow state. When the one or more valves are in the medium flow state, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor exceeds the maximum set pressure to advance the one or more valves to the high flow state or if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor falls below a minimum set pressure to advance the one or more valves to the low flow state. Finally, when the one or more valves are in the high flow state, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor falls below a minimum set pressure to advance the valves to the medium flow state.In one embodiment, the set of small diameter tubes includes at least first and second sets of small diameter tubes and the set of large diameter tubes includes at least first and second sets of large diameter tubes. Separate valves are associated with each set of small diameter tubes and each set of large diameter tubes. The controller communicates with the pressure sensor valves associated with each set of small diameter tubes and with each set of large diameter tubes to initially open only the valves associated with the small diameter tubes. When only the valves associated with the small diameter tubes are open, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor exceeds a maximum set pressure, the controller closes the valves associated with the small diameter tubes and opens the valves associated with the large diameter tubes. When only the valves associated with the large diameter tubes are open, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor exceeds the maximum set pressure, the controller opens the valves associated with the small diameter tubes while leaving the valves associated with the large diameter tubes open or if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor falls below a minimum set pressure, the controller opens the valves associated with the small diameter tubes and closes the valves associated with the large diameter tubes. When both the valves associated with the large diameter tubes and the valves associated with the small diameter tubes are open, if the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor falls below a minimum set pressure the controller closes the valves associated with the small diameter tubes while leaving the valves associated with the large diameter tubes open.The valves are preferably mounted on a mounting bracket which is mounted centrally or at a single location on the row unit type agricultural implement as opposed to mounting separate valves for each pair of small diameter and large diameter tubes at or near each row unit. The mounting bracket includes the valves associated with the small diameter tubes mounted in a first section or column of the bracket and the valves associated with the large diameter tubes mounted in a second section or column of the bracket.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1 is a partially schematic perspective view of a liquid distribution system configured to distribute liquid agricultural chemicals to each row of a row type agricultural implement including a front perspective view of a manifold and valve assembly used in the liquid distribution system for supplying liquid to each row of an eight row implement with the rows split into two, four row sections.FIG. 2 is a view similar to FIG. 1 showing a rear perspective view of the manifold and valve assembly.FIG. 3 is a logic diagram for the operating valves of the liquid distribution system.FIG. 4 is a front perspective view of an alternative embodiment of the manifold and valve assembly adapted for supplying liquid to an implement having four sections of multiple rows in each section.FIG. 5 is a front elevational view of the manifold and valve assembly as shown in FIG. 4.FIG. 6 is a rear elevational view of the manifold and valve assembly as shown in FIG. 4.FIG. 7 is a left side elevational view of the manifold and valve assembly as shown in FIG. 4FIG. 8 is a schematic view of an alternative embodiment of a liquid distribution system for row type agricultural implements.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSAs required, detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein; however, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention, which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore, specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. The drawings constitute a part of this specification and include exemplary embodiments of the present invention and illustrate various objects and features thereof.Certain terminology will be used in the following description for convenience in reference only and will not be limiting. For example, the words “upwardly,” “downwardly,” “rightwardly,” and “leftwardly” will refer to directions in the drawings to which reference is made. The words “inwardly” and “outwardly” will refer to directions toward and away from, respectively, the geometric center of the embodiment being described and designated parts thereof. Said terminology will include the words specifically mentioned, derivatives thereof and words of a similar import.Referring to the drawings in more detail, FIG. 1 is a partially schematic view of a liquid distribution system 1 for mounting on a row type agricultural implement (not shown). The liquid distribution system 1 includes a tank 3, pump 4, main feed line 5, manifold and valve assembly 6 and liquid distribution lines 7 which are routed to each row or row unit (not shown) of the implement. The system 1 shown in FIGS. 1 and 2 is adapted for dispensing liquid at or near each row of an agricultural implement having eight rows split into two sections of four.The components of the manifold and valve assembly 6 are mounted on a mounting bracket 8 which is configured to be bolted or otherwise secured to the frame of the agricultural implement. The manifold and valve assembly 8 includes a manifold 11 having a manifold trunk 12 and first and second manifold branches 13 and 14 extending from manifold trunk 12. The first manifold branch 13, or A branch, has first and second outlet tube connectors 17 and 18 connected thereto and the second manifold branch 14, or B branch, has third and fourth outlet tube connectors 19 and 20 connected thereto.First and second group A distribution lines 21 and 22 for routing liquid to smaller diameter branch lines 23 associated with the first and second row sections are connected to first and second outlet tube connectors 17 and 18 respectively. First group A distribution line 21 branches out into four smaller diameter branch lines 23-1, 23-2, 23-3 and 23-4 (first group A branch lines) and second group A distribution line 22 branches out into four smaller diameter branch lines 23-5, 23-6, 23-7 and 23-8 (second group A branch lines). Similarly, first and second group B distribution lines 26 and 27 are connected to third and fourth outlet tube connectors 19 and 20 respectively. First group B distribution line 26 branches out into four larger diameter branch lines 28-1, 28-2, 28-3 and 28-4 (first group B branch lines) and second group B distribution line 27 branches out into four larger diameter branch lines 28-5, 28-6, 28-7 and 28-8 (second group B branch lines). The internal diameter of each smaller diameter branch line 23-1 through 23-8 is smaller than the internal diameter of each larger diameter branch line 28-1 through 28-8. However, the internal diameter of each group A distribution lines 21 and 22 is preferably the same as the internal diameter of the group B distribution lines 26 and 27 so that the pressure drop through distribution lines 21 and 22 and 26 and 27 are generally the same.Each of smaller diameter branch line 23-1 through 23-8 is paired with a larger diameter branch line 28-1 through 28-8 and routed to a row or row unit. For example the following branch lines may be paired together and each pair routed to a row unit: 23-1 and 28-1; 23-2 and 28-2; 23-3 and 28-3; 23-4 and 28-4; 23-5 and 28-5; 23-6 and 28-6; 23-7 and 28-7; and 23-8 and 28-8. At each row unit, the associated pairs of smaller diameter and larger diameter branch lines are connected to a single nozzle or applicator tube 31 with a Y-connector 33. Branch lines 23-1 and 28-1 are connected to applicator tube 31-1; branch lines 23-2 and 28-2 are connected to applicator tube 31-2; branch lines 23-3 and 28-3 are connected to applicator tube 31-3; branch lines 23-4 and 28-4 are connected to applicator tube 31-4; branch lines 23-5 and 28-5 are connected to applicator tube 31-5; branch lines 23-6 and 28-6 are connected to applicator tube 31-6; branch lines 23-7 and 28-7 are connected to applicator tube 31-7; and branch lines 23-8 and 28-8 are connected to applicator tube 31-8.First and second valves 37 and 38, or group A valves, are connected to the first manifold branch 13 and control flow of liquid out the first and second outlet tube connectors 17 and 18 respectively and to the first and second group A distribution lines 21 and 22. Third and fourth valves 39 and 40, or group B valves, are connected to the second manifold branch 14 and control flow of liquid out the second and third outlet tube connectors 19 and 20 respectively and to the first and second group B distribution lines 26 and 27.A primary rate controller 43, a pressure controller 44 and a valve controller 45 are used to control the flow of liquid through the liquid distribution lines 7 and out applicator tubes 31-1 through 31-8 based at least in part on the flow rate of the liquid in the main feed line 5 sensed by flow meter 46 and the pressure of the liquid in the main feed line 5 sensed by pressure sensor 47. In the embodiment shown, flow meter 46, measures the flow rate of liquid in the main feed line 5, downstream of pump 4. The primary controller 43 receives a signal from the flow meter 46 indicative of the flow rate of liquid in main feed line 5. Primary controller 43 communicates with the motor 48 for pump 4 to vary the speed of the pump, to vary the flow rate through the system and to create backpressure.Pressure sensor 47 is mounted on and extends into the manifold trunk 12. The pressure controller 44 receives a signal from pressure sensor 47 indicative of the pressure of the liquid in main feed line 5. Pressure controller 44 communicates the sensed pressure to primary rate controller 43 and valve controller 45. Primary rate controller 43 communicates the sensed pressure to computer display 49 to display the information to an operator. Valve controller 45 communicates with and selectively opens and closes each of the valves 37-40 in response to changes in the pressure sensed by pressure sensor 47.Operation of the system is described hereafter with reference to FIG. 3 which comprises a logic diagram for the valve controller 45 of the embodiment shown in FIGS. 1 and 2. In an initial step 201, first and second valves 37 and 38, or A valves, are set open to allow liquid to flow through the group A distribution lines 21 and 22 and the smaller diameter branch lines 23-1 through 23-8 and third and fourth valves 39 and 40, or B valves, are closed to prevent liquid from flowing through the group B distribution lines 26 and 27 and the larger diameter branch lines 28-1 through 28-8. The pressure in group A distribution lines 21 and 22 and branch lines 23, will increase as the rate controller 43 increases the pump speed and liquid flow. When the pressure sensed by pressure sensor 47 at 203 and communicated to valve controller 45 reaches a high pressure set-point, the valve controller will open the group B valves 39 and 40 at 205 allowing liquid to flow through group B distribution lines 26 and 27 and larger diameter branch lines 28-1 through 28-8 and closes the group A valves 37 and 38 at 207 preventing liquid from flowing through the group A distribution lines 21 and 22 and through the smaller diameter branch lines 23.Because of the increase in the internal diameter of the tubing of the larger diameter branch lines 28 versus the smaller diameter branch lines 23, the pressure in the distribution lines 7 and the main feed line 5 will initially decrease. If the pump speed is increased to further increase the flow rate of liquid through the distribution lines 7, the pressure in the main feed line 5 will continue to increase. When the pressure sensed by pressure sensor 47 in the main feed line 5 reaches the high pressure set-point again at 209, valve controller 45 will, at 211, re-open the group A valves 37 and 38, while leaving the group B valves 39 and 40 open so that liquid flows through both sets of distribution lines 21, 22, 26 and 27 and both sets of smaller and larger diameter branch lines 23 and 28. In one embodiment the high pressure set point, might range between 50 to 75 psi and in the embodiment shown in FIG. 3 is set at 65 psi for demonstrative purposes.With both group A and B valves 37-40 open, and when the flow is reduced by the rate controller, the pressure in the main feed line 5 and distribution lines 7 will drop. When the pressure sensed in the main feed line 5 by pressure sensor 47 drops below a minimum pressure set point as at 213, the valve controller 45 is programmed to close the group A valves at 215, blocking flow through the smaller diameter branch lines 23. Once the group A valves are closed, the pressure in the group B distribution lines and the larger diameter branch lines 28 will initially increase to a pressure exceeding the minimum pressure set point, which in the embodiment shown in FIG. 3 is set at 15 psi for demonstrative purposes. It is foreseen that set points ranging from approximately 10 to 20 psi could be utilized for the minimum pressure set point and that set points ranging from approximately 50 to 80 could be utilized for the maximum pressure set point. If flow continues to drop, the back pressure in the tubes will also continue to drop. When the pressure sensed in the main feed line 5 by pressure sensor 47 drops back down to the minimum set-point as at 217, valve controller 45 will open the group A valves allowing flow to the smaller diameter branch lines and will close the group B valve resulting in increased back pressure throughout the distribution lines 7.It is foreseen that a single valve could be utilized to control the flow of liquid to multiple group A or group B distribution lines. The valves used may be controlled electrically, hydraulically, pneumatically or by other known means. It is also foreseen that a single valve could be used to control the fluid to all of the lines with the valve having a first position in which the main feed line or trunk line is connected to each of and only the smaller diameter branch lines, a second position in which the main feed line is connected to each of and only the larger diameter branch lines, a third position in which the main feed line is connected to each of the smaller diameter branch lines and each of the larger diameter branch lines, and a fourth or closed position in which flow is cut off between the main feed line and the smaller diameter branch lines and the larger diameter branch lines. It is also foreseen that one such four way valves could be connected between the main feed line and each paired set of group A distribution lines and group B distribution lines, or in other words one four way valve per set of group A and group B distribution lines.FIGS. 4-7 disclose an alternative embodiment of a manifold and valve assembly 56 mounted on a larger bracket 57. Manifold and valve assembly 56 includes four sets of group A valves 59 and four sets of group B valves 60 mounted on longer manifold branches 63 and 64 respectively projecting from manifold trunk 62. Four sets of outlet tube connectors 67 and 69 are mounted on each manifold branch 63 and 64 respectively for connecting four sets of group A and group B distribution lines and branches (not shown) thereto. A pressure sensor 71 is shown mounted on the manifold trunk 62. The manifold and valve assembly 56 are adapted to distribute liquid to each row of four sets of four row sections of the implement.The mounting bracket 57 includes a pair of slotted mounting bracket feet 76. The slots 77 in feet 76 receive screws for bolting the bracket 57 to an implement frame. A vertical mounting plate 78 projects upward from the feet 76 and is adapted for mounting of the manifold trunk 62 and manifold branches 63 and 64 thereto. A valve controller 80 is mounted on the vertical mounting plate 78 at an upper end thereof. Side flanges 82 and 83 project rearward from the vertical mounting plate 78 on opposite sides thereof and are angled slightly inward towards each other. The side flanges 82 and 83 provide structural rigidity and strength to the bracket 57. Valve position indicia 84 are shown stamped into the side flanges 82 and 83 to provide a reference to each valve 59 and 60 mounted on the bracket 57. In the embodiment shown, the indicia include references A1, A2, A3 and A4 on one side flange 82 indicative of each of the group A valves 59 mounted adjacent thereto and references B1, B2, B3 and B4 on the other side flange 83 indicative of each group B valve 60. A and B indicia 85 is also shown formed at the top of the bracket, to indicate which group of valves are included in each column and the group of distribution lines controlled thereby.FIG. 8 is an alternative embodiment of a liquid distribution system 101 for distributing liquid agricultural chemicals to each row of a row type implement in which the valves for controlling the flow of liquid out each line are mounted at each row instead of on a centrally mounted manifold and valve assembly as in the first two embodiments discussed herein. In system 101, liquid is pumped from a tank 102, using pump 104 and through main feed line 105 to a manifold 111. A flow meter 112 is mounted on and measures the flow rate through main feed line 105 and a pressure sensor 113 is mounted on and measures the pressure within manifold 111.Three liquid distribution lines 117, 118 and 119 are shown connected to the manifold 111. Each liquid distribution line 117-119 extends to a different section of a row unit and four pairs of valves 120, including A valves 120A and B valves 120B are connected to each liquid distribution line 117-119 with each valve pair 120 mounted on or positioned in close proximity to each row or row unit of the implement. Outlet tube connectors 123 A and 123B are connected to each of the group A and group B valves 120A and 120B respectively. Branch tubes 125A and 125B are connected to each outlet tube connector 123A and 123B respectively, one set of which is shown in FIG. 8. The branch tube 125A connected to outlet tube connector 123A and associated with valve 120A has a smaller internal diameter than the branch tube 125B connected to outlet tube connector 123B and associated with valve 120B. A y-connector 127 is connected to the ends of the branch tubes 125A and 125B and a discharge tube 128 with a nozzle 129 on the distal end thereof is connected to the y-connector so that the liquid distributed through branch tubes 125A and 125B are dispensed out of a common nozzle 129 or outlet opening.A controller or control assembly 132 communicates with the flow meter 112, pressure sensor 113, pump 4 and each of the valves 120A and 120B to implement a control strategy similar to that used with the liquid distribution system 1.It is to be understood that while certain forms of the present invention have been illustrated and described herein, it is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangement of parts described and shown.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/952,253 filed on Mar. 13, 2014. The above identified patent application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety to provide continuity of disclosure.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a self-cleaning rake adapted to remove leaves and debris from the tines thereof. More specifically, the present invention provides a rake having an elongated shaft and a rake head having a plurality of tines thereon, wherein a cleaning bar is disposed on the tines and can be moved along the tines in order to remove debris thereon. The cleaning bar can be moved along the tines by actuating a grip disposed on the shaft of the rake and operably connected to the cleaning bar by means of an extension rod disposed within the elongated shaft.Leaves and other debris often gather in yards, lawns, and other areas. This is particularly true during autumn when the leaves on trees fall to the ground throughout the season. Such debris must be collected and removed in order to maintain the property and the appearance thereof.Rakes are often used to collect leaves and other debris accumulated on a lawn or other area. Raking can be a time consuming and laborious process as the user must continually sweep leaves into a pile. While raking, leaves and debris may become stuck between the tines of the rake, preventing the rake from functioning in the usual manner. As a result, the user must stop raking and remove the debris by hand. This can be a messy process and slows the already difficult task of raking leaves.The present invention provides a self-cleaning rake. The rake comprises an elongated shaft having a first end adapted to be held by a user, and a second end having a rake head thereon. The rake head includes a plurality of tines extending therefrom and arranged parallel to one another. A cleaning bar is slidably attached to the tines and is orthogonal thereto. The cleaning bar can be moved from the first end of the tines towards the second end thereof to remove debris stuck between the tines. An extension rod is secured to the cleaning bar and extends through the rake head and into the elongated shaft of the self-cleaning rake. A grip is slidably disposed on the elongated shaft and is operably connected to the extension rod. In this way, a user can actuate the cleaning bar on the tines by moving the grip towards or away from the rake head. Further, the extension rod may be spring-loaded such that the grip and the extension rod automatically retract to a resting position after being extended.2. Description of the Prior ArtDevices have been disclosed in the prior art that relate to self-cleaning rakes. These include devices that have been patented and published in patent application publications. These devices generally relate to rakes having attachments used to dislodge debris stuck between the rake tines. The following is a list of devices deemed most relevant to the present disclosure, which are herein described for the purposes of highlighting and differentiating the unique aspects of the present invention, and further highlighting the drawbacks existing in the prior art.One such device, U.S. Pat. No. 6,851,254 to Dalfors discloses a self-cleaning rake. The rake comprises a handle and a rake head having a plurality of tines thereon. A cleaning bar having a plurality of cleaning channels can be actuated by a push-rod. Each cleaning channel corresponds to the shape of one of the tines on the rake, and when the push-rod is actuated the cleaning bar moves along the tines so as to remove debris therefrom. While Dalfors discloses a self-cleaning rake, the device of Dalfors does not include a cleaning bar disposed orthogonally to the rake tines that slides along the length thereof when a grip disposed on the shaft of the rake is actuated.U.S. Pat. No. 4,776,158 to Baum discloses a self-cleaning rake comprising a bar on the teeth of the rake that is movable via a push rod arranged on the handle of the rake. The push rod is used to move the bar from a raised position for raking, and a lowered position for leaf removal. A spring clip holds the bar in the raised position. Thus, Baum discloses a self-cleaning rake having a push bar located on the exterior of the rake handle, and having a separate grip thereon for actuating the push bar. This arrangement is inconvenient as the user must take his or her hand off of the rake handle and instead grab the handle for the push bar in order to remove debris from the rake.U.S. Pat. No. 5,713,193 to Stapley et al. discloses a self-cleaning rake comprising a handle and two sets of tines. The handle includes telescoping sections, wherein one section includes a cleaning bar attached to one set of tines. The cleaning bar also includes apertures through which a second set of tines extend. Thus, Stapley discloses a device with two sets of tines that move relative to one another to remove debris, and fails to disclose a set of tines having a cleaning bar thereon that can be moved along the length of the tines in order to dislodge debris thereon.U.S. Pat. No. 5,501,069 to Lentz discloses a self-cleaning rake having a hand operated actuator that causes a spreader to slide along the rake tines in order to remove the debris therefrom. The tines pivot inside of a flange so as to move radially, as the spreader moves along the tines. Thus, Lentz discloses a rake having tines that extend outward from a fixed point. In contrast, the present invention comprises a self-cleaning rake having a cleaning bar that can be moved from the first end of a plurality of elongated, parallel tines towards the second end in order to remove debris lodged between the tines.U.S. Design Pat. No. D329177 to Nace et al. discloses an ornamental design for a lawn rake. The lawn rake includes a cleaning device thereon that moves along the length of the tines. The handle of the lawn rake includes a grip thereon. While Nace discloses the design for a self-cleaning rake, Nace fails to disclose a rake having an extension rod that is spring-loaded, and does not disclose an extension rod enclosed within the rake head.Finally, U.S. Pat. No. 941,292 to Wieman discloses a self-cleaning rake. The rake includes a plurality of curved teeth having a cleaner plate adapted to be moved over the teeth in order to remove leaves and debris therefrom. A sliding sleeve is mounted on the handle and is used to actuate the cleaner plate. The cleaner plate pivots along the teeth in order to remove debris. Thus, Wieman fails to disclose a rake having a cleaning element that is parallel to the rake head and moves along the length of the tines in order to remove debris therefrom. Instead, Wieman discloses a cleaner that pivots about the rake head.These prior art devices have several known drawbacks. Devices in the prior art relate to self-cleaning rakes having various mechanisms for freeing debris from the rake tines. However, these devices do not include a grip disposed on the handle of the rake that can be easily actuated in order to move a cleaning bar disposed on the tines. Further, the present invention comprises a spring-loaded extension rod attached to the cleaning bar that causes the cleaning bar to return to a resting position after being extended. Thus, the present invention allows a user to easily remove debris from the tines of the rake without having to remove the debris by hand, or by using a secondary tool or device.In light of the devices disclosed in the prior art, it is submitted that the present invention substantially diverges in design elements from the prior art and consequently it is clear that there is a need in the art for an improvement to existing self-cleaning rake devices. In this regard the instant invention substantially fulfills these needs.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn view of the foregoing disadvantages inherent in the known types of self-cleaning rakes now present in the prior art, the present invention provides a new self-cleaning rake wherein the same can be utilized for providing convenience for the user when raking leaves and debris and removing such debris from the rake tines.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved self-cleaning rake device that has all of the advantages of the prior art and none of the disadvantages.It is another object of the present invention to provide a self-cleaning rake device that functions as a conventional rake.Another object of the present invention is to provide a self-cleaning rake device comprising a cleaning bar that can be moved along the tines to dislodge debris thereon.Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a self-cleaning rake device having a cleaning bar for dislodging debris that can be easily actuated by means of a grip disposed on the shaft of the rake.Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a self-cleaning rake device having a cleaning bar that is attached to a spring-loaded extension rod that automatically retracts once extended.Another object of the present invention is to provide a self-cleaning rake that may be readily fabricated from materials that permit relative economy and are commensurate with durability.Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGSAlthough the characteristic features of this invention will be particularly pointed out in the claims, the invention itself and manner in which it may be made and used may be better understood after a review of the following description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein like numeral annotations are provided throughout.FIG. 1A shows a perspective view of the self-cleaning rake wherein the cleaning bar is in a retracted position.FIG. 1B shows a perspective view of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention wherein the cleaning bar is in an extended position.FIG. 2 shows a close-up view of the shaft of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention.FIG. 3 shows a view of the extension rod and spring of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention.FIG. 4 shows a close-up view of the cleaning bar of the present invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONReference is made herein to the attached drawings. Like reference numerals are used throughout the drawings to depict like or similar elements of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention. For the purposes of presenting a brief and clear description of the present invention, the preferred embodiment will be discussed as used for cleaning debris from the tines of a rake. The figures are intended for representative purposes only and should not be considered to be limiting in any respect.Referring now to FIGS. 1A and 1B, there are shown views of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention wherein the cleaning bar is in a retracted and extended position, respectively. The self-cleaning rake 11 comprises an elongated shaft 12 having a first end 23 and a second end 24. The elongated shaft 12 includes a hollow interior volume, and preferably comprises a circular cross section.A rake head 13 is disposed on the second end 24 of the elongated shaft 12. The rake head 13 includes an elongated end having a plurality of tines 14 extending therefrom. The tines 14 are disposed perpendicularly to the elongated end of the rake head 13. The tines 14 are preferably elongated and are spaced at a fixed interval. Further, the tines 14 are substantially parallel to one another. The first end 15 of the tines 14 is attached to the rake head 13 and the second end 16 of the tines 14 extends outward therefrom. The second end 16 may be bent or curved to facilitate collecting leaves and debris on the ground.A cleaning bar 17 is disposed on the tines 14 and is adapted to move along the tines 14 from a retracted position wherein the cleaning bar 17 is near the first end 15 of the tines 14 to an extended configuration wherein the cleaning bar 17 is near the second end 16 thereof. The cleaning bar 17 includes openings 18 adapted to receive each tine 14 of the self-cleaning rake 11 therethrough. The cleaning bar 17 is disposed substantially perpendicularly to the tines 14 and is parallel to the elongated end of the rake head 13 such that it can be positioned flush thereagainst when in a retracted configuration.The cleaning bar 17 is connected to an extension rod 19. The first end of the extension rod 19 is preferably connected to a central portion of the cleaning bar 17 and extends through the rake head 13. As such, the first end of the extension rod 19 is disposed between the tines 14 that are located in the middle portion of the rake head 13. The second end of the extension rod 19 extends through the interior of the elongated shaft 12. The second end of the extension rod 19 is connected to a slidable grip 22 disposed on the exterior of the elongated shaft 12. The grip 22 is substantially cylindrical and is adapted to slide along the length of the elongated shaft 12. In this way the slidable grip 22 can be used to actuate the cleaning bar 17 so as to move the cleaning bar 17 along the length of the tines 14. In operation, a user can easily move the grip 22 along the elongated shaft 12 in order to dislodge leaves and other debris on the tines 14. Thus, the user does not need to remove the debris by hand or use another tool.The elongated shaft 12 further includes one or more stoppers 21 thereon. The stoppers 21 are cylindrical and are fixed on the elongated shaft 12. The stoppers 21 serve to constrain the motion of the slidable grip 22. When the slidable grip 22 is moved towards the rake head 13, the slidable grip 22 contacts a first stopper 21, preventing the slidable grip 22 from moving further down the elongated shaft 12. Similarly, in the retracted position, the slidable grip 22 may be positioned against a second stopper 21, preventing the slidable grip 22 from moving further along the elongated shaft 12.Referring now to FIG. 2, there is shown a view of the elongated shaft of the self-cleaning rake of the present invention. The elongated shaft 12 is tubular and comprises a hollow interior. A mid-portion of the shaft 12 includes a channel 25 thereon, over which the grip 22 is positioned. The first end of the extension rod 19 extends from the cleaning bar 17 through the rake head 13 and into the elongated shaft 12. A portion of the second end of the extension rod 19 extends through the channel 25 and is connected to the grip 22. In this way, the grip 22 can slide along the exterior of the shaft 12 from a first end of the channel 25 to the second end thereof. Thus, the channel 25 restricts the degree to which the grip 22 can slide, which restricts the movement of the cleaning bar 17 on the tines 14. This prevents the cleaning bar 17 from sliding off of the second end of the tines 14.Referring now to FIG. 3, there is shown a view of an embodiment of the extension rod and spring of the self-cleaning rake. In some embodiments of the present invention, the extension rod 19 is spring-loaded. A spring 30 is positioned within the elongated shaft 12 and includes a first end affixed to the first end 23 of the elongated shaft 12, and a second end affixed to an end 31 of the extension rod 19. In a resting or retracted position, the cleaning bar 17 is positioned against the rake head 13 on the first end of the tines so that the rake 11 can be used in the conventional fashion. When the grip 22 is actuated by the user, and moved along the shaft 12 towards the rake head 13, the extension rod 19 within the shaft 12 moves towards the rake head 13, causing the cleaning bar 17 to move from the first end of the tines towards the second end thereof. The cleaning bar 17 dislodges any debris stuck between the tines as the cleaning bar 17 moves towards the second end of the tines. As this occurs, the spring 30 within the elongated shaft 12 is stretched and is under tension. Thus, the spring 30 will cause the extension rod 19 and the cleaning bar 17 attached thereto to return to the resting position once the user ceases to push the grip 22 towards the rake head 13. This eliminates the need for the user to move the grip 22 back and forth each time the user wishes to remove debris from the tines. The spring-loaded extension rod 19 also prevents the cleaning bar 17 from sliding towards the second end of the tines while the rake 11 is in use, and maintains the cleaning bar 17 in a retracted position.Referring now to FIG. 4, there is shown a close-up view of the cleaning bar of the present invention. The cleaning bar 17 preferably comprises an elongated rectangular shape. The cleaning bar 17 includes an upper end, a lower end, and a first side 34 opposite a second side 35. The upper end includes a plurality of openings 18 thereon, through which the tines 14 extend. The cleaning bar 17 includes a plurality of channels thereon, wherein each channel is adapted to receive a tine 14 therethrough. The lower end of the cleaning bar includes rectangular openings 37 thereon through which the tines 14 can be inserted. Thus, each tine 14 extends through the opening 18 on the upper surface and through the rectangular opening 37 on the lower end of the cleaning bar 17. The rectangular openings 37 extend from the second side 35 towards the first side 34 of the cleaning bar 17. Further, the second side 35 of the cleaning bar 17 includes rectangular openings 36 thereon. The rectangular openings 36 extend from the lower end towards the upper end of the cleaning bar 17. In this way, as the cleaning bar 17 reaches the curved end of the tines 14, the curved end 16 of the tines can extend through the rectangular openings 36, 37 on the lower end and second side of the cleaning bar. This allows the entirety of the tines 14 to be cleaned, including the curved portion thereof.It is therefore submitted that the instant invention has been shown and described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized, however, that departures may be made within the scope of the invention and that obvious modifications will occur to a person skilled in the art. With respect to the above description then, it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention, to include variations in size, materials, shape, form, function and manner of operation, assembly and use, are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art, and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.Therefore, the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further, since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the invention.
TECHNICAL FIELDExample embodiments generally relate to outdoor power equipment and, more particularly, some embodiments relate to a power takeoff (PTO) control system for a lawn care vehicle.BACKGROUNDLawn care tasks are commonly performed using various tools and/or machines that are configured for the performance of corresponding specific tasks. Certain tasks, like grass cutting, are typically performed by lawn mowers. Lawn mowers themselves may have many different configurations to support the needs and budgets of consumers. Walk-behind lawn mowers are typically compact, have comparatively small engines and are relatively inexpensive. Meanwhile, at the other end of the spectrum, riding lawn mowers, such as lawn tractors, can be quite large. Riding lawn mowers can sometimes also be configured with various functional accessories (e.g., trailers, tillers and/or the like) in addition to grass cutting components. Riding lawn mowers provide the convenience of a riding vehicle as well as a typically larger cutting deck as compared to a walk-behind model.The cutting blades employed by lawn mowers are typically rotated in some fashion in order to cause the rotating blade to cut vegetation that is encountered thereby. One way to cause rotation of the cutting blade of a lawn mower is to use electricity to engage a clutch to the main engine crankshaft of the lawn mower. In some cases, such a clutch may be referred to as a power takeoff (PTO) clutch. The PTO clutch may transfer rotational torque and power to activate rotating components like the blades on lawn mowers. For an electrically operated clutch, a magnetic armature and rotor may be operable based on electricity supplied from a battery of the mower to engage a clutch and plate to allow full contact and thereby rotate the blades. A similar mechanism may also be employed for tillers or other outdoor power equipment that utilizes rotatable working gear to accomplish a task.In many devices in which a PTO clutch is employed, a switch is provided in an accessible location for the operator to engage or disengage. Such a switch is often provided as a mechanically robust switch that may require considerable effort to engage/disengage. Furthermore, the devices may provide certain interlocks to prevent certain undesirable activities in dependence upon the position of the switch. The difficulty of operation, coupled with the sometimes unexpected operation of certain interlocks, can be distracting or even upsetting to some operators.BRIEF SUMMARY OF SOME EXAMPLESSome example embodiments may provide a control system for employment, for example, with a two way momentary switch for use in conjunction with an electronic logic system or relay system to allow the PTO clutch to be engaged or disengaged while the switch returns to a neutral position.Some example embodiments may improve the ability of operators to operate outdoor power equipment such as riding lawn mowers or tillers that employ a PTO to engage and disengage a PTO clutch and also perform at least one additional operation such as mowing in reverse. Operators may therefore take fuller advantage of the capabilities of their outdoor power equipment devices, and have a greater satisfaction with the performance of their outdoor power equipment devices.In an example embodiment, a lawn care device is provided. The lawn care device may include a cutting deck housing at least one blade, an engine configured to selectively provide for rotation of the at least one blade responsive to selective coupling of the rotary power of the engine to the at least one blade via a power takeoff (PTO) clutch, and a PTO switch that is operable in two directions to engage or disengage the PTO clutch based on which one of the two directions the PTO switch is moved by a user. The PTO switch may be biased to return to a neutral position after each operation thereof. The PTO switch may be configured to perform at least one additional operational function responsive to sequential operation of the PTO switch in at least one of the two directions.In another example embodiment, a PTO switch may be provided. The PTO switch may control selective coupling of rotary power from an engine of a lawn care device to a cutting blade of the lawn care device via a PTO clutch. The PTO switch may include a cap portion graspable by a user of the lawn care vehicle, a shaft having the cap portion disposed proximate to one end thereof and extending into the lawn care device, and a contact plate. The shaft may be operable in two directions and the contact plate may be disposed proximate to an opposite end of the shaft to make electrical contact with one of at least two contacts responsive to movement of the shaft. The at least two contacts may correspond to an engagement contact and a disengagement contact. The electrical contact between the contact plate and the engagement contact may engage the PTO clutch and electrical contact between the contact plate and the disengagement contact may disengage the PTO clutch. The shaft may be biased to return to a neutral position after each operation of the PTO switch. In some cases, sequential electrical contacts between the engagement contact and the contact plate may cause at least one additional operational function of the lawn care device to be performed.In another example embodiment, a method of enabling controlling operation of a lawn care device having a cutting deck that houses at least one blade and an engine configured to selectively provide for rotation of the at least one blade responsive to selective coupling of rotary power of the engine to the at least one blade via a power takeoff (PTO) clutch is provided. The method may include providing a PTO switch that is operable in two directions to engage or disengage the PTO clutch based on which one of the two directions the PTO switch is moved by a user. The PTO switch may be biased to return to a neutral position after each operation thereof. The method may further include providing a processor configured to receive inputs indicative of movement of the PTO switch in either of the two directions, utilizing the processor to provide control of the PTO clutch based on the movement of the PTO switch, and utilizing the processor to control performance of at least one additional operational function responsive to sequential operation of the PTO switch in at least one of the two directions.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:FIG. 1 illustrates a perspective view of the riding lawn care vehicle according to an example embodiment;FIG. 2 illustrates a functional block diagram for explaining the operation of a PTO switch of the riding lawn care vehicle of an example embodiment;FIG. 3 illustrates a functional block diagram of processing circuitry of an example embodiment;FIG. 4 illustrates a block diagram of a method of enabling controlling operation of a lawn care device having a cutting deck that houses at least one blade and an engine configured to selectively provide for rotation of the at least one blade responsive to selective coupling of rotary power of the engine to the at least one blade via a power takeoff (PTO) clutch according to an example embodiment; andFIG. 5, which includes FIGS. 5A, 5B, and 5C, provides a flow chart showing operation of a control algorithm according to an example embodiment.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONSome example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed, the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope, applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather, these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. Furthermore, as used herein, the term “or” is to be interpreted as a logical operator that results in true whenever one or more of its operands are true. Additionally, the term “lawn care” is meant to relate to any yard maintenance activity and need not specifically apply to activities directly tied to grass, turf or sod care. As used herein, operable coupling should be understood to relate to direct or indirect connection that, in either case, enables functional interconnection of components that are operably coupled to each other.Some conventional riding lawn mowers employ PTO switches that are mechanically operable and therefore are maintained in the last position that the operator places them in until they are manually repositioned. Such a reliance on manual repositioning may lead to interruptions or distractions relative to the user experience since certain interlocks regarding operation of the riding lawn mowers may be triggered based on the operator forgetting that the PTO switch was last left in a position that will trigger an interlock.In an example embodiment, a lawn mower is provided that may avoid triggering some of those interlocks inadvertently. In this regard, some example embodiments may provide a two-way, momentary PTO switch. The momentary nature of the switch may reduce the likelihood of one of the various interlocks that may otherwise be triggered interfering with the user experience. By virtue of the momentary nature of the switch, prior entries may essentially be cleared or reset after shutdown so that proper startup conditions are provided each time after a shutdown without the need for additional operator intervention. In some cases, the automatic return of the PTO switch to a neutral position may also enable the user to carry out additional functional operations using the PTO switch that may not be possible with conventional mechanically operated switches. The operator experience may therefore be improved with respect to operation of riding lawn care vehicles on which the PTO switch is employed.FIG. 1 illustrates an example lawn care device in the form of a riding lawn care vehicle 10 having a bagging attachment 12. However, it should be appreciated that example embodiments may be employed on numerous other riding lawn care vehicles that may not include a bagging attachment 12. The riding lawn care vehicle 10 may also include an operations panel 14 that may display operational information regarding the riding lawn care vehicle 10 and host various controls, gauges, switches, displays and/or the like. As shown and described herein, the riding lawn care vehicle 10 may be a riding lawn mower (e.g., a lawn tractor, front-mount riding lawn mower, zero-turn riding lawn mower, cross mower, stand-on riding lawn mower, and/or the like). However, other example embodiments may be employed on other outdoor power equipment devices, such as walk behind lawn mowers, tillers, snow throwers, and/or the like.The riding lawn care vehicle 10 may include a steering assembly 20 (e.g., including a steering wheel, handle bars, or other steering apparatus) functionally connected to wheels of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 to which steering inputs are provided (e.g., the front and/or rear wheels in various different embodiments) to allow the operator to steer the riding lawn care vehicle 10. In some embodiments, the riding lawn care vehicle 10 may include a seat 30 that may be disposed at a center, rear or front portion of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. The operator may sit on the seat 30, which may be disposed to the rear of the steering assembly 20 to provide input for steering of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 via the steering assembly 20.The riding lawn care vehicle 10 may also include, or be configured to support attachment of, a cutting deck 40 having at least one cutting blade mounted therein. In some cases, a height of the at least one cutting blade may be adjustable by an operator of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. The cutting deck 40 may be a fixed or removable attachment in various different embodiments. Moreover, a location of the cutting deck 40 may vary in various alternative embodiments. For example, in some cases the cutting deck 40 may be positioned in front of the front wheels 42, behind the rear wheels 44, or in between the front and rear wheels 42 and 44 (as shown in FIG. 1) to enable the operator to cut grass using the at least one cutting blade when the at least one cutting blade is rotated below the cutting deck 40. In some embodiments, the cutting deck 40 may be lifted or rotated relative to the lawn mower frame to permit easier access to the underside of the lawn mower without requiring removal of the cutting deck 40. The cutting deck 40 may have one, two, three, or more cutting blades driven by one, two, three, or more rotatable shafts. The shafts may be rotated by any number of mechanisms. For example, in some embodiments the shafts are coupled to a motor via a system of belts and pulleys. In other embodiments the shafts may be coupled to the motor via a system of universal joints, gears, and/or other shafts. In still other embodiments, such as in an electric lawn mower, the shaft may extend directly from an electric motor positioned over the cutting deck.In some embodiments, the front wheels 42 and/or the rear wheels 44 may have a shielding device positioned proximate thereto in order to prevent material picked up in the wheels from being ejected toward the operator. Fender 46 is an example of such a shielding device. When operating to cut grass, the grass clippings may be captured by a collection system (e.g., bagging attachment 12), mulched, or expelled from the cutting deck 40 via either a side discharge or a rear discharge.The riding lawn care vehicle 10 may also include additional control related components such as one or more speed controllers, cutting height adjusters and/or the like. Some of the controllers, such as the speed controllers, may be provided in the form of foot pedals that may sit proximate to a footrest 48 (which may include a portion on both sides of the riding lawn care vehicle 10) to enable the operator to rest his or her feet thereon while seated in the seat 20.In the pictured example embodiment of FIG. 1, an engine 50 of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 is disposed substantially forward of a seated operator. However, in other example embodiments, the engine 50 could be in different positions such as below or behind the operator. In some embodiments, the engine 50 may be operably coupled to one or more of the wheels of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 in order to provide drive power for the riding lawn care vehicle 10. In some embodiments, the engine 50 may be capable of powering two wheels, while in others, the engine 50 may power all four wheels of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. Moreover, in some cases, the engine 50 may manually or automatically shift between powering either two wheels or all four wheels of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. The engine 50 may be housed within a cover that forms an engine compartment to protect engine 50 components and improve the aesthetic appeal of the riding lawn care vehicle 10.In an example embodiment, the engine compartment may be positioned proximate to and/or mate with portions of a steering assembly housing 60. The steering assembly housing 60 may house components of the steering assembly 20 to protect such components and improve the aesthetic appeal of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. In some embodiments, a steering wheel 62 of the steering assembly 20 may extend from the steering assembly housing 60 and a steering column (not shown) may extend from the steering wheel 62 down through the steering assembly housing 60 to components that translate inputs at the steering wheel 62 to the wheels to which steering inputs are provided.In some embodiments, the engine 50 may also provide power to turn the cutting blade or blades disposed within the cutting deck 40. In this regard, for example, the engine 50 may be used to turn a shaft upon which the cutting blade or blades may be fixed (e.g., via a belt and pulley system and/or other mechanisms). The turning of the shaft, at high speeds, may move the cutting blade or blades through a range of motion that creates air movement that tends to straighten grass for cutting by the moving blade and then eject the cut grass out of the cutting deck 40 (e.g., to the bagging attachment 12 or to the back or side of the riding lawn care vehicle 10), unless the blade and mower are configured for mulching.In an example embodiment, the engine 50 may turn at least one shaft that is coupled to corresponding ones of one or more cutting blades within the cutting deck 40 via a PTO clutch. When the PTO clutch is engaged, rotary power generated by the engine 50 may be coupled to the one or more cutting blades to cause rotation thereof (e.g., for cutting grass). When the PTO clutch is disengaged, rotary power generated by the engine 50 may not be coupled to the one or more cutting blades and thus the cutting blades may not rotate. In some embodiments, engagement of the PTO clutch may be accomplished via operation of a PTO switch 70 that may be disposed on or proximate to the operations panel 14.FIG. 2 illustrates a functional block diagram for explaining the operation of the PTO switch 70 of an example embodiment. As shown in FIG. 2, the PTO switch 70 may include a switch body including a shaft 100 and a cap 110. The shaft 100 may be substantially cylindrical in shape (although other shapes could be employed) and may extend out of a covering placed over the operations panel 14 between the cap 110 and a contact plate 120. The shaft 100 of some embodiments may be made of plastic, a molded composite, metal and/or the like. The cap 110 may be made of similar or different material to that of the shaft 100 and may be engaged to the shaft 100 by any fixation method (e.g., weld, screw, nut/bolt combination, rivet, snap fit, etc.) or by being part of the same unitary piece of material. In some embodiments, the cap 110 may be a plate shaped piece of material that has a larger diameter than the shaft 100 to facilitate grasping of the cap 110 by an operator of the riding lawn care vehicle 10.In some embodiments, a portion of the cap 110 or the shaft 100 may house one or more indicator lights (e.g., indicator light 130). Lights such as the indicator light 130 may be used to provide indications related to a state of the PTO switch 70 or a state of certain functional situations impacted by the current or most recent position or positioning of the PTO switch 70. In some cases, the indicator light 130 may be a backlight for illuminating a predefined text message or icon associated with providing a specified informational message or alert to the operator. The message or icon may be indicative of whether a particular mode (e.g. mow in reverse mode) of operation is enabled. Thus, for example, if the light is lit, mow in reverse may be enabled, but mow in reverse functionality may be disabled if the light is not lit.In an example embodiment, the indicator light 130 may receive its input (e.g., electrical power to turn the light on or off) based on positions of one or more switches, relays or contacts that indicate corresponding conditions or situations. The input may be associated with a most recent contact made by the contact plate 120. Alternatively or additionally, the indicator light 130 may receive its input from processing circuitry 140. In an embodiment employing the processing circuitry 140, the processing circuitry 140 may also function to translate switch inputs into corresponding outputs of an electrical PTO clutch 145 as described in greater detail below.The contact plate 120 may be provided to close an indicator circuit, operate a relay or otherwise activate a switching component responsive to the contact plate 120 being in electrical contact with a corresponding contact (e.g., disengagement contact 150 or engagement contact 152) based on a position of the PTO switch 70. In an example embodiment, when the PTO switch 70 is depressed or pushed in a predefined amount, the contact plate 120 may come into contact with the disengagement contact 150 and a corresponding signal indicative of the event may be communicated to the processing circuitry 140. Meanwhile, if the PTO switch 70 is pulled out a predefined amount, the contact plate 120 may come into contact with the engagement contact 152 and a corresponding signal indicative of the event may be communicated to the processing circuitry 140.Responsive to receipt of a signal indicative of the contact plate 120 making electrical contact with the disengagement contact 150, the processing circuitry 140 may take actions associated with PTO clutch disengagement as described herein. Meanwhile, responsive to receipt of a signal indicative of the contact plate 120 making electrical contact with the engagement contact 152, the processing circuitry 140 may take actions associated with PTO clutch engagement as described herein.In an example embodiment, the PTO switch 70 may be a momentary switch insofar as the PTO switch 70 may be biased to return to a neutral position after any actuation relative to engagement or disengagement of the PTO. In other words, responsive to any movement of the contact plate 120 causing the contact plate 120 to make electrical contact with the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152 based on manual lifting or depressing of the cap 110 by the operator, the contact plate 120 will be returned to a neutral position where there is no further contact with either the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152 after the operator releases the PTO switch 70. In an example embodiment, one or more springs (e.g., springs 154 and 156) may be disposed proximate to the shaft 100 and/or the contact plate 120 to oppose movement of the contact plate 120 toward either the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152, and restore the contact plate 120 to the neutral position responsive to any movement away from the neutral position. As such, the PTO switch 70 may be biased to remain in and return to the neutral position.As indicated above, the processing circuitry 140 may communicate with the electrical PTO clutch 145 based on operation of the PTO switch 70. In an example embodiment, the processing circuitry 140 may be configured to translate switch inputs (e.g., based on the contacting of the contact plate 120 with the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152) into corresponding outputs to cause engagement or disengagement of the electrical PTO clutch 145. The electrical PTO clutch 145 may selectively couple rotation of the engine to the cutting blades. In other words, for example, the electrical PTO clutch 145 may provide controls to couple the rotary power generated by the engine 50 to the one or more cutting blades in the cutting deck 40 to cause rotation of the one or more cutting blades when the electrical PTO clutch 145 receives an engage signal from the processing circuitry 140. The processing circuitry 140 may provide the engage signal responsive to an indication that the PTO switch 70 has been pulled out (e.g., to contact the engagement contact 152).Meanwhile, when the electrical PTO clutch 145 is disengaged (e.g., via the PTO switch 70 being depressed or pushed in so that the disengagement contact 150 is contacted), a disengage signal may be generated by the processing circuitry 140 and the processing circuitry 140 may communicate the disengage signal to the electrical PTO clutch 145. The electrical PTO clutch 145 may then, responsive to receipt of the disengage signal, cause rotary power generated by the engine 50 to be decoupled from the one or more cutting blades and thus the cutting blades may not rotate. After operation of the PTO switch 70 to either engage or disengage the electrical PTO clutch 145, the PTO switch 70 may be returned to a neutral position. In other words, the contact condition between the contact plate 120 and either of the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152 may be cleared. However, the signal provided by the processing circuitry 140 may ensure that the electrical PTO clutch 145 remains in the operating condition in which it was last sent by operation of the PTO switch 70 until some other condition overrides.By providing for immediate return of the PTO switch 70 to the neutral position, preexisting or previous PTO switch 70 positions will not be carried over to affect future operations of the system when an intervening action is performed. For example, in a conventional PTO switch that does not return to the neutral position, engagement of the PTO switch by pulling the PTO switch outward may cause the PTO clutch to engage. However, mechanical/safety interlocks in the system may prevent starting of the mower while the PTO switch remains in the outward position. Accordingly, if the operator leaves the PTO switch pulled out and stops the mower, the PTO switch will remain in the pulled out condition when the user next attempts to start the mower. The mower may be prevented from starting. In some cases, a start fault indicator may inform the user to disengage the PTO switch. However, this may create a situation that interferes with the user's enjoyment of the user experience.Meanwhile, example embodiments may enable the riding lawn care vehicle 10 to be started even if the user forgets to manually disengage the PTO switch 70. In this regard, for example, the use of the PTO switch 70 to engage the electrical PTO clutch 145, while the PTO switch 70 is biased to return to a neutral position after the contact plate 120 makes contact with the engagement contact 152, may ensure that the electrical PTO clutch 145 does not remain engaged after the riding lawn care vehicle 10 is shut down. Instead, when the riding lawn care vehicle 10 is powered down or turned off, the electrical components may return to a rest state or otherwise de-energize. Thus, for example, the electrical PTO clutch 145 may disengage so that rotary power of the engine 50 is not coupled to the cutting blades. Since the PTO switch 70 is in the neutral position by default, when the user attempts to start the riding lawn care vehicle 10, there will be no electrical interlock to prevent starting of the vehicle since there will also not be any actual engagement of the electrical PTO clutch 145. Thus, the electrical PTO clutch 145 may clear its condition upon shutdown so that startup is permitted without further action relative to the position of the PTO switch 70, and the PTO switch 70 itself will also be returned to the neutral position to facilitate starting of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 so that no engagement signal is provided from the PTO switch 70 based on the prior engagement position of the PTO switch 70 as the last input provided thereto prior to shutdown of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. Thus, the condition of both the electrical PTO clutch 145 and the PTO switch 70 can be cleared at shutdown and reset to permit startup of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 without any interlock associated with the last or current position of the PTO switch 70 or electrical engagement clutch 145 preventing such startup.In an example embodiment, the fact that the PTO switch 70 returns to the neutral position after actuation thereof by the user may also mean that additional operational sequences may be inserted via the PTO switch 70, so that other control functions may be provided using the PTO switch 70 without manually repositioning of the PTO switch 70 between the entry of the operational sequences. In this regard, for example, multiple operations of the PTO switch 70 (i.e., initiation of multiple sequential contacts between the contact plate 120 and the disengagement contact 150 or the engagement contact 152) may be inserted without manual repositioning of the PTO switch in between the sequential contacts.As an example, in some embodiments, the processing circuitry 140 may also provide control signals to a reverse switch 160. The reverse switch 160 may be activated in order to enable the riding lawn care vehicle 10 to mow (or turn the blades in the cutting deck 40) while the vehicle is operated in reverse. Some mowers may have interlocks preventing operation of the mower in reverse without the user specifically providing an input to permit mowing in reverse. The permission to mow in reverse may, like the typical convention PTO clutch, remain activated even after a shutdown. Thus, a mow in reverse switch left in an activated position at shutdown may prevent startup of the mower.In some embodiments, engagement of the electrical PTO clutch 145 may be accomplished during driving in reverse via operation of the PTO switch 70 twice in the upward direction within a predetermined period of time. Thus, for example, if the processing circuitry 140 receives two engagement signals within a certain period of time (e.g., receipt of a second engagement signal within the space of less than two seconds from receipt of a first engagement signal), the sequence of engagement signals may be interpreted as a mow in reverse instruction. The processing circuitry 140 may therefore shift a mode of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 by providing appropriate control signals to enable the electrical PTO clutch 145 to be engaged while the riding lawn care vehicle 10 is operated in reverse. However, similar to the cases described above in which prior conditions are cleared at shutdown, the PTO switch 70 returns to the neutral position automatically after each manual activation. Thus, the PTO switch 70 will be in the neutral position after any shift is made to enable mowing in reverse. Furthermore, the processing circuitry 140 may clear any mow in reverse signaling if a shutdown occurs. Thus, upon startup of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 after a shutdown, neither the current position of the PTO switch 70 nor any remaining indications of the prior operational enablement signaling provided by the processing circuitry 140 may be retained to inhibit operation of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 relative to startup.FIG. 3 illustrates a functional block diagram of the processing circuitry 140 of an example embodiment. In this regard, for example, the processing circuitry 140 may be provided in the context of a control system 200 of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. The control system 200 may utilize the processing circuitry 140 to provide electronic control inputs to one or more functional units of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 and to process data generated by sensors of a sensor network 210 regarding various operational parameters relating to the riding lawn care vehicle 10. The processing circuitry 140 may be configured to perform data processing, control function execution and/or other processing and management services according to an example embodiment of the present invention. In some embodiments, the processing circuitry 140 may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words, the processing circuitry 140 may comprise one or more physical packages (e.g., chips) including materials, components and/or wires on a structural assembly (e.g., a baseboard). The structural assembly may provide physical strength, conservation of size, and/or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. The processing circuitry 140 may therefore, in some cases, be configured to implement an embodiment of the present invention on a single chip or as a single “system on a chip.” As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein.In an example embodiment, the processing circuitry 140 may include one or more instances of a processor 212 and memory 214 that may be in communication with or otherwise control a device interface 220 and, in some cases, a user interface 230. As such, the processing circuitry 140 may be embodied as a circuit chip (e.g., an integrated circuit chip) configured (e.g., with hardware, software or a combination of hardware and software) to perform operations described herein. However, in some embodiments, the processing circuitry 140 may be embodied as a portion of an on-board computer. In some embodiments, the processing circuitry 140 may communicate with electronic components and/or sensors (e.g., of the sensor network 210) of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 via a single data bus (e.g., data bus 240). As such, the data bus 240 may connect to a plurality or all of the sensors, switching components and/or other electrically controlled components of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 to the processing circuitry 140.The user interface 230 (if implemented) may be in communication with the processing circuitry 140 to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface 230 and/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical or other output to the user. As such, the user interface 230 may include, for example, a display, one or more levers, switches, buttons or keys (e.g., function buttons), and/or other input/output mechanisms. In an example embodiment, the PTO switch 70 may be one example of a component that may form a part of the user interface 230.The device interface 220 may include one or more interface mechanisms for enabling communication with other devices (e.g., sensors of the sensor network 210 and/or other accessories or functional units such as motors, engines, servos, switches or other operational control devices for providing control functions). In some cases, the device interface 220 may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware, or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and/or transmit data from/to sensors in communication with the processing circuitry 140 via the data bus 240. Thus, for example, the device interface 220 may provide interfaces for communication of components of the riding lawn care vehicle 10 via the data bus 240.The processor 212 may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example, the processor 212 may be embodied as various processing means such as one or more of a microprocessor or other processing element, a coprocessor, a controller or various other computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), or the like. In an example embodiment, the processor 212 may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory 214 or otherwise accessible to the processor 212. As such, whether configured by hardware or by a combination of hardware and software, the processor 212 may represent an entity (e.g., physically embodied in circuitry—in the form of processing circuitry 140) capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor 212 is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor 212 may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor 212 is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor 212 to perform the operations described herein.In an example embodiment, the processor 212 (or the processing circuitry 140) may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the operation of the electrical PTO clutch 145 based on inputs received by the processing circuitry 140 responsive to positioning of the PTO switch 70. As such, in some embodiments, the processor 212 (or the processing circuitry 140) may be said to cause each of the operations described in connection with the PTO switch 70 in relation to operation of the electrical PTO clutch 145 by directing the electrical PTO clutch 145 to undertake the corresponding functionalities responsive to execution of instructions or algorithms configuring the processor 212 (or processing circuitry 140) accordingly.In an exemplary embodiment, the memory 214 may include one or more non-transitory memory devices such as, for example, volatile and/or non-volatile memory that may be either fixed or removable. The memory 214 may be configured to store information, data, applications, instructions or the like for enabling the processing circuitry 140 to carry out various functions in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For example, the memory 214 could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor 212. Additionally or alternatively, the memory 214 could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor 212. As yet another alternative, the memory 214 may include one or more databases that may store a variety of data sets responsive to input from the sensor network 210. Among the contents of the memory 214, applications may be stored for execution by the processor 212 in order to carry out the functionality associated with each respective application. In some cases, the applications may include instructions for recognition of various input signals related to PTO switch 70 positioning and, if necessary, timing associated with the reception of such signals. The applications may further include instructions for operational control of the electrical PTO clutch 145 or the reverse switch 160 as described above.In an example embodiment, a method of enabling controlling operation of a lawn care device having a cutting deck that houses at least one blade and an engine configured to selectively provide for rotation of the at least one blade responsive to selective coupling of rotary power of the engine to the at least one blade via a power takeoff (PTO) clutch may be provided. FIG. 4 illustrates a block diagram of such a method. The method may include providing a PTO switch that is operable in two directions to engage or disengage the PTO clutch based on which one of the two directions the PTO switch is moved by a user at operation 300. The PTO switch may be biased to return to a neutral position after each operation thereof. The method may further include providing a processor configured to receive inputs indicative of movement of the PTO switch in either of the two directions at operation 310, utilizing the processor to provide control of the PTO clutch based on the movement of the PTO switch at operation 320, and utilizing the processor to control performance of at least one additional operational function responsive to sequential operation of the PTO switch in at least one of the two directions at operation 330.In some cases, utilizing the processor to control performance of at least one additional operational function may include utilizing the processor to control enablement for rotation of the at least one blade while the lawn care device is operated in a reverse direction. In some embodiments, the method may include additional, optional operations. An example of a potential optional operation that may be included in the method is shown in dashed lines in FIG. 4. In this regard, for example, the method may further include utilizing the processor to light an indicator light to inform the user that mowing in reverse is enabled at operation 340.Thus, example embodiments provide a two-way, momentary PTO switch that reduces the likelihood of various interlocks from interfering with the user experience, while at the same time resetting prior entries after shutdown so that proper startup conditions are provided each time after a shutdown without additional operator intervention. The operator experience may therefore be improved while still providing for effective control over various functions of the riding lawn care vehicle on which the PTO switch is employed.In an example embodiment, a lawn care device is provided. The lawn care device may include a cutting deck housing at least one blade, an engine configured to selectively provide for rotation of the at least one blade responsive to selective coupling of the rotary power of the engine to the at least one blade via a PTO clutch, and a PTO switch that is operable in two directions to engage or disengage the PTO clutch based on which one of the two directions the PTO switch is moved by a user. In an example embodiment, the PTO switch may be biased to return to a neutral position after each operation thereof. Moreover, in some cases, the PTO switch may be configured to perform at least one additional operational function responsive to sequential operation of the PTO switch in at least one of the two directions. In some cases, the movement of the PTO switch may be determined based on electrical contact being made between a portion of the PTO switch (e.g., a contact plate) and electrical contacts associated with switching circuitry of the lawn care device (e.g., an engagement contact and a disengagement contact).The lawn care device of some embodiments may include additional features that may be optionally added. For example, in some embodiments, (1) the PTO switch may include a spring configured to return the PTO switch to the neutral position responsive to a release of the PTO switch by the user after movement of the PTO switch in either of the two directions. Additionally or alternatively, (2) the at least one additional operational function may include enablement for rotation of the at least one blade while the lawn care device is operated in a reverse direction. In some cases, (3) the at least one additional operational function may be initiated responsive to movement of the PTO switch at least a predetermined number of times (e.g., two) in the same direction within a given period of time (e.g., about one second). Additionally or alternatively, (4) the at least one additional operational function is initiated responsive to sequential operation of the PTO switch comprising movement of the PTO switch at least two successive times in a direction corresponding with engagement of the PTO clutch.In some embodiments, any or all of (1) to (4) may be employed, and the PTO switch may include a shaft that extends at least in part into an operation panel of the lawn care device. Additionally or alternatively, the PTO switch may include a cap disposed at a distal end of the shaft relative to the operation panel. In some embodiments, any or all of (1) to (4) may be employed, and the cap may include at least one light element disposed therein. Additionally or alternatively, the light element may be configured to be lit responsive to enablement for rotation of the at least one blade while the lawn care device is operated in the reverse direction. In some embodiments, any or all of (1) to (4) may be employed, and the PTO switch may be configured to provide an input to processing circuitry indicative of a direction of movement of the PTO switch. The processing circuitry may be configured to control operation of the PTO clutch based on inputs provided by the PTO switch. Additionally or alternatively, the processing circuitry may receive information indicative of operational characteristics of the lawn care device via a data bus, and provide instructions to the PTO clutch and a reverse switch via the data bus.In some embodiments, the processing circuitry 140 (which may include a processor capable of executing instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium/memory) may be configured to implement a control algorithm for starting of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. Given that the control algorithm is practiced in connection with operation of the processing circuitry 140, the default position for the PTO switch 70 is essentially a neutral position so that the PTO switch 70 may effectively be removed from the start sequence of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. Accordingly, the operator is not required to remember a position of the PTO switch 70 or to place the PTO switch 70 in a particular position prior to starting of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. As such, for example, the operator does not need to shut the PTO switch 70 off and then back on again, as would be required in a conventional system.FIG. 5 illustrates an example of a control algorithm according to an example embodiment. It should be appreciated that the control algorithm may be executed by a processor or processing circuitry. Thus, for example, the operations described herein may be executed by processing circuitry 140. The processing circuitry 140 may initially receive an input to start the engine at operation 400. At operation 402, the processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory (e.g., memory 214) to set or confirm that the PTO state is off and mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is also off. The PTO switch state may also initially be set to off since the PTO switch 70 automatically returns physically to a neutral position as described above. A determination may then be made, at operation 404, as to whether the parking brake is engaged or whether another brake is engaged by an operator in the seat of the riding lawn care vehicle 10. In other words, a check of safety interlock satisfaction may be accomplished prior to starting. However, PTO engagement need not be one of the interlocks checked since the PTO is removed from the check by example embodiments. If there is no brake applied, then an output error indicator may be generated at operation 406 and the program may cycle back to operation 400. If the brake is applied, engine start may be commenced at operation 408, but the PTO may remain unengaged.Thereafter, the control circuitry 140 may monitor for receipt of an input to turn off the engine at operation 410. If an input to turn the engine off is received, the PTO may be disengaged (if engaged) at operation 412. At operation 414, the processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is off, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is also off and that the PTO switch state is off. The engine may be stopped at operation 416 and flow may return to operation 400.If, at operation 410, there is no input for engine turn off, a determination may be made at operation 418 as to whether an input to engage the PTO is received (e.g., by the operator pulling the PTO switch 70 upward). If no such input is received, an output error indicator may be triggered at operation 420. Meanwhile, if the input is received, a determination may be made at operation 422 as to whether the operator is in the seat. If the operator is not in the seat, an output error indicator may be triggered at operation 420. However, if the operator is in the seat, then a further determination may be made at operation 424 as to whether the vehicle is in reverse. If the vehicle is in reverse, an output error indicator may be triggered at operation 420. However, if the vehicle is not in reverse, the processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is on, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is off and that the PTO switch state is in indicative of a PTO on, MIR off state at operation 426. The electric clutch may then be actuated to engage the PTO system at operation 428.Referring now to FIG. 5B, if a determination regarding whether the operator leaves the seat at operation 430 indicates that the operator has left the seat, a further determination may be made at operation 432 as to whether the brake is engaged. If the brake is not engaged, flow may return to operation 412 above. However, if the brake is engaged, the PTO may be disengaged while keeping the engine running at operation 434. The processing circuitry 140 may then reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is off, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is off and that the PTO switch state is off at operation 436. The PTO switch itself may again be automatically returned to the neutral position. Flow may then return to operation 420. Meanwhile, if the operator remains in the seat at operation 430, a determination may be made as to whether the vehicle has been put in reverse at operation 438. If the vehicle has been put in reverse, then operation returns to operation 434. However, if the vehicle has not been put in reverse, a determination may be made as to whether an input is received to turn on MIR (e.g., via the operator pulling upward on the PTO switch while the PTO is engaged) at operation 440.If the MRI input is received, the MIR indicator light may be turned on at operation 442. Thereafter, the PTO may be engaged to stay engaged while the vehicle is moved in reverse and the MIR state may be stored in the memory as the on state at operation 444. The processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is on, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is on and that the PTO switch state is in indicative of a PTO on, MIR on state at operation 446. In some embodiments, flow after operation 446 may return to connection point D on FIG. 5C. However, in some optional cases (an example of which is illustrated in dashed lines in FIG. 2B), a determination may be made at operation 448 as to whether the vehicle is shifted back to forward operation. If a shift to forward operation is made, the processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is on, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is off and that the PTO switch state is in indicative of a PTO on, MIR off state at operation 450. The MIR indicator light may then be turned off at operation 452 and flow may proceed to connection point C of FIG. 5C. Returning to operation 440, if no input is received to turn MIR on as a result of the determination of operation 440, flow may proceed to connection point C of FIG. 5C. Meanwhile, if the vehicle has not been shifted back to forward operation at operation 448, then flow may proceed to making a determination as to whether an input is received to turn off MIR (by the operator pulling upward on the PTO switch while MIR is on) at operation 454. If the input to turn MIR off is not received, flow may proceed to connection point C of FIG. 5C. However, if the input is received to turn MIR off at operation 454, the processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is on, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is off and that the PTO switch state is in indicative of a PTO on, MIR off state at operation 456. The MIR light may then be turned off at operation 458 and flow may proceed to connection point C of FIG. 5C at which time a determination may be made as to whether an input is received to turn off PTO (e.g., by the operator pushing the PTO switch 70 downward) at operation 460. If the input to turn PTO off is received, PTO may be disengaged, but the engine may be kept running at operation 462. The processing circuitry 140 may reference internal memory to set or confirm that the PTO state is off, that the mow-in-reverse (MIR) state is off and that the PTO switch state is off state at operation 464.Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages, benefits or solutions to problems are described herein, it should be appreciated that such advantages, benefits and/or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments, but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus, any advantages, benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical, required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
The invention relates to a picking unit for corn or the like for a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine. The invention furthermore relates to a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine and to a harvesting machine, in particular a combine-harvester.The picking unit for corn or the like comprises a picking gap on which two counter-rotating draw-in rollers are arranged.Such picking unit is known from DE 299 09 358 U1.It is the object of the invention to improve the chopping effect in a picking unit of the type mentioned above.According to the invention, this object is solved by the features of claim 1. The picking gap extends in horizontal direction or in approximately horizontal direction with an inclination from the bottom front to the top rear. It extends in direction of the direction of movement of the harvesting machine, which in particular can be a combine-harvester. The picking unit is arranged in front of the harvesting machine in direction of movement.At the picking gap two counter-rotating draw-in rollers are arranged. The draw-in rollers are located on both sides of the picking gap. They extend substantially parallel to the picking gap and at a distance from each other. The draw-in rollers are located below the picking gap.The picking unit can comprise further components. In particular, it can comprise rotating cutting knives. The cutting knives rotate about a vertically or substantially vertically extending axis, i.e. in a horizontal or substantially horizontal plane. The cutting knives rotating in this way form a horizontal chopper. They are located below the draw-in rollers.The picking unit furthermore can include draw-in chains. The draw-in chains are arranged on both sides of the picking gap. They are located above the picking gap. These are counter-rotating chains which rotate in a substantially horizontal plane extending parallel to the picking gap. On the draw-in chains carriers are provided, which protrude into the region above the picking gap and there are moving from front to rear.The picking unit also can include further rotating cutting knives, which rotate about a horizontally or substantially horizontally extending axis. The cutting knives thus rotate in a vertical or substantially vertical plane. They form a vertical chopper. The further rotating cutting knives are arranged below the picking gap and behind the cutting knives which form the horizontal chopper.According to the invention, a draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling cutting edge. This draw-in roller also can be referred to as knife roller. The spiraling cutting edge improves the chopping effect.In particular, it can thereby be achieved that the stalk of the corn plant or other plant is split centrally, in fiber direction. This can lead to the fact that the organic material will decay more easily. In particular, it can be prevented that insects which are problematic for the cultivation of the corn plant or other plant can multiply and/or overwinter in the interior of the stalk.Advantageous developments are described in the sub-claims.It is advantageous when the other draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling cutting edge. The chopping effect can even further be improved thereby.It is, however, also possible that the other draw-in roller has a portion with a spiraling strip. This draw-in roller also can be referred to as strip roller. The strip does not have a tapered cross-section which can be sharpened, like the spiraling cutting edge, but a cross-section ending blunt. This can also lead to a further improvement of the chopping effect.It is advantageous when the spiraling cutting edge of the one draw-in roller and the spiraling cutting edge of the other draw-in roller penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the portions of the cutting edges overlap each other. At the same time, the arrangement is made such that the spaced portions of the cutting edge of the one draw-in roller penetrate into the gaps between the spaced portions of the cutting edge of the other draw-in roller, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers are synchronized, in order to continually ensure this absence of collisions.Correspondingly, it is advantageous when the spiraling cutting edge of the one draw-in roller and the spiraling strip of the other draw-in roller penetrate each other in a corresponding way.According to another advantageous development, flutings are present between the spaced portions of the spiraling strip of the other draw-in roller. The chopping effect can further be improved thereby.One or both of the draw-in rollers can have a smooth draw-in region.Instead or in addition, one or both of the draw-in rollers can have a draw-in region with a spiraling strip.The draw-in region of one or both of the draw-in rollers can be designed cone-shaped. The cone flares in direction to the rear.The invention furthermore relates to a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine with a frame which is characterized by one or more picking units according to the invention.The invention finally relates to a harvesting machine, in particular a combine-harvester which is characterized by a harvesting attachment according to the invention.Exemplary embodiments of the invention will be explained in detail below with reference to the attached drawing, in which:FIG. 1 shows a harvesting attachment for a harvesting machine with a frame and several picking units for corn or the like in a perspective view obliquely from the top front,FIG. 2 shows the harvesting attachment according to FIG. 1 in a perspective view obliquely from the top rear,FIG. 3 shows a part of the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 and 2 without covering hoods in a view from above,FIG. 4 shows the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 to 3 in a side view,FIG. 5a shows a detail from FIG. 4 in a side view,FIG. 5b shows a detail from FIG. 5a in a perspective view,FIG. 5c shows another detail from FIG. 5a in a perspective view,FIG. 6 shows an end of the harvesting attachment according to FIGS. 1 to 5 with a primary gear in a perspective view,FIG. 7 shows the primary gear according to FIG. 6 in a perspective view,FIG. 8 shows a picking unit of the harvesting attachment in a perspective view obliquely from the top front,FIG. 9 shows the picking unit according to FIG. 8 in a perspective view obliquely from the top rear,FIG. 10 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 and 9 in a perspective view corresponding to FIG. 9,FIG. 11 shows a part of the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 to 10 in a perspective view obliquely from the bottom front with two draw-in rollers formed as knife rollers and a horizontal chopper with a rotor with cutting knives in one plane,FIG. 12 shows the picking unit according to FIG. 11 in an enlarged perspective representation,FIG. 13 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 11 and 12 with a horizontal chopper with one rotor with cutting knives in three planes,FIG. 14 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIGS. 11 and 12 with a horizontal chopper with two rotors with cutting knives in one plane each,FIG. 15 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIG. 14 with a horizontal chopper with two rotors with cutting knives in three planes each,FIG. 16 shows the picking unit according to FIGS. 8 to 15 in a view from below, andFIG. 17 shows a modification of the picking unit according to FIG. 16 with one draw-in roller formed as knife roller and one formed as strip roller.The harvesting attachment shown in FIGS. 1 and 2 for a harvesting machine, in particular for a combine-harvester, comprises a frame 1 which includes a rear wall 2 and a bottom wall 3. The frame has an L-shaped angular form. The rear wall 2 substantially extends in vertical direction, and the bottom wall 3 substantially extends in horizontal direction.The longitudinal extension of the frame 1 corresponds to the working width. The frame 1 includes side boxes 4 at its ends. In the middle of the frame 1 the rear wall 2 is provided with an elevation 5 which extends on the extension of the rear wall 2 and includes lateral bevels 6.In the middle of the rear wall 2 there is furthermore provided a through opening 7 which on both sides is defined by the side walls 2 as well as by the bottom wall 3 and the elevation 5. The through opening 7 can serve for mounting the frame 1 on the harvesting vehicle. Furthermore, the crop can be conveyed through the through opening 7 from the front side of the frame 1 to the harvesting vehicle. For conveying the crop, a conveying screw 8 is present in the frame, which is located in the region of transition from the rear wall 2 to the bottom wall 3.The frame 1 is formed as continuously cast profile, preferably as continuously cast light-metal profile of aluminum or of a material which contains aluminum. To the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1 several picking units 9 for corn or the like are attached. The picking units 9 each comprise a picking gap 10 which extends from the bottom front to the top rear. The picking units 9 are arranged parallel to each other and at a distance from each other, preferably each at the same distance.Between two adjacent picking units 9 a covering hood 11 each is provided. At its front end, each covering hood 11 has a tapered inlet region 12 flaring towards the rear. The picking gaps 10 of adjacent picking units 9 adjoin the inlet regions 12 of adjacent covering hoods 11.FIG. 3 shows an end of the frame 1 and four picking units 9 from which the covering hoods 11 have been removed. Each picking unit 9 comprises two draw-in chains 13 which are arranged on both sides of the picking gap 10. They are located above the picking gap 10. Each draw-in chain 13 endlessly runs around two rollers 15, which are rotatably mounted about approximately vertical axes inclined towards the front, so that the draw-in chains 13 revolve in opposite directions in approximately horizontal planes inclined towards the front. The sides of the draw-in chains 13 facing each other extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. They furthermore extend parallel to and at a distance from the picking gap 10 from front to rear. On the draw-in chains 13 carriers 14 are provided, which protrude into the region above the picking gap 10 and there are moving from front to rear.As shown in FIG. 4, each picking unit 9 comprises a horizontal chopper 16. The horizontal chopper 16 is located below the picking gap 10 and below the draw-in chains 13. It comprises cutting knives 17 which rotate about a vertical axis in a horizontal plane. In the embodiment according to FIG. 4, the cutting knives 17 are arranged in three planes located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other.As shown in particular in FIGS. 8 to 10, each picking unit 9 comprises a vertical chopper 18 which includes cutting knives 19 that rotate about a horizontally extending axis in a vertical plane. The vertical chopper is arranged below the picking gap and behind the picking gap and behind the horizontal chopper.Each picking unit 9 comprises a housing 20. The vertical chopper 18 is pivotally mounted on the housing 20 about a horizontal axis 21. The horizontal axis 21 is located at the rear end of the housing 20.The vertical chopper 18 has a frame 22 which comprises two outer longitudinal struts 23. The longitudinal struts 23 extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. They extend from the horizontal axis 21 to the rear.In the ends of the longitudinal struts 23 a shaft 24 is mounted, to which the cutting knives 19 are attached. The cutting knives 19 can be suspended in pendulum fashion about horizontal axes.The shaft 24 of the vertical chopper 18 is driven by a belt drive which is arranged in a longitudinal strut 23. The belt drive comprises a belt, preferably a toothed belt. The belt or toothed belt wraps around the shaft 24 and a drive shaft which extends coaxially to the horizontal axis 21.In the embodiment according to FIGS. 8 and 9 the cutting knives 19 are arranged within the frame 22. In the embodiment according to FIG. 10 further cutting knives 19 are present, which are arranged outside the frame. For this purpose, the shaft 24 on both sides is extended to the outside via the longitudinal struts 23.On the vertical chopper 18 sliding blocks 25 are mounted. The sliding blocks 25 are attached to the rear lower ends of the longitudinal struts 23 of the frame 22. They are designed arc-shaped. The sliding blocks 25 are convexly curved, so that they rest on the bottom in an arc-shaped manner. Due to the sliding blocks 25 and the pivotal mounting of the vertical chopper 18 on the housing 20 about the horizontal axis 21, each vertical chopper 18 of the adjacent picking units 9 can adapt to the ground profile. As a result, an adaptation of the respective vertical chopper 18 to the height of the ground also is possible, when the ground height varies along the longitudinal extension of the frame 1 which extends transversely to the direction of travel of the combine-harvester.As shown in particular in FIGS. 11 to 17, each picking unit 9 includes two draw-in rollers 26, 27. The draw-in rollers 26 are located on both sides of the picking gap 10. They rotate in opposite directions about axes which extend parallel to each other and at a distance from each other. The axes of rotation of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 extend parallel to the picking gap 10 from the bottom front to the top rear. They are located below the picking gap 10.A draw-in roller 26 has a portion 28 with a spiraling cutting edge 29. The cutting edge 29 has a tapered cross-section which can be sharpened.In the embodiment according to FIG. 16, the other draw-in roller 27 also has a portion 30 with a spiraling cutting edge 31. The cutting edges 29, 31 penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the cutting edges 29, 31 overlap each other. The arrangement is made such that the spaced, adjacent portions 32 of the cutting edge 29 penetrate into the gaps between the spaced, adjacent portions 33 of the cutting edge 31 of the other draw-in roller 27, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 are synchronized, in order to ensure this absence of collisions.In the embodiment according to FIG. 17, the other draw-in roller 27 has a portion 30 with a spiraling strip 34. The strip 34 has a cross-section ending blunt. It substantially is a rectangular cross-section. The spiraling cutting edge 29 of the draw-in roller 26 and the spiraling strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27 penetrate each other. The outside diameters of the cutting edge 29 and the strip 34 overlap each other. The arrangement is made such that the spaced, adjacent portions 32 of the cutting edge 39 penetrate into the gaps between the spaced, adjacent portions 33 of the strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27, so that they cannot collide with each other and do not hinder each other. The rotational movements of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 are synchronized, in order to ensure this absence of collisions.Between the portions 33 of the spiraling strip 34 of the other draw-in roller 27 flutings 35 are present. The flutings 35 are depressions or elevations which extend in longitudinal direction of the other draw-in roller 27 and which are spaced from each other in radial direction, preferably at the same distance.The draw-in rollers 26, 27 each have a draw-in region 36. The draw-in regions 36 are located at the front ends of the draw-in rollers 26, 27. They are designed cone-shaped. The cone flares from front to the rear. At the rear end the diameter of the cones of the draw-in regions 36 corresponds with the diameter of the portions 28, 30 of the draw-in rollers 26, 27. The portions 28, 30 of the draw-in rollers 26, 27 extend from the rear ends of the draw-in regions 36 to the rear ends of the draw-in rollers 26, 27.In the embodiment according to FIG. 16, both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37. In the embodiment according to FIG. 17, the draw-in roller 26 has a smooth draw-in region 36. The other draw-in roller 27 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37. However, all other combinations also are possible. It is possible that in both embodiments both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a smooth draw-in region 36, that in both embodiments the draw-in roller 26 has a smooth draw-in region 36 and the other draw-in roller 27 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37, that in both embodiments the draw-in roller 26 has a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37 and the other draw-in roller 27 has a smooth draw-in region 36, and that in both embodiments both draw-in rollers 26, 27 have a draw-in region 36 with a spiraling strip 37.FIGS. 11 and 12 show a picking unit 9 with a horizontal chopper 16 which includes a rotor with two cutting knives 17 in one plane. In the exemplary embodiment according to FIG. 13 the picking unit 9 includes a horizontal chopper 16 with a rotor on which two cutting knives 17 each are arranged in three planes located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other. In the embodiment according to FIG. 14, the horizontal chopper 16 comprises two rotors with two cutting knives each in one plane each, wherein these planes are offset against each other in height, so that the knife circles overlapping each other cannot lead to a collision of the cutting knives 17. In the embodiment according to FIG. 15 the horizontal chopper 16 comprises two rotors with two cutting knives 17 each in three planes each, which are located one above the other, spaced from each other and parallel to each other. The knife planes of the two rotors are offset against each other in height, in order to avoid collisions of the cutting knives 17 whose knife circles overlap each other.FIGS. 4 and 5 show the connection of a picking unit 9 to the frame 1. The picking unit 9 is releasably connected with the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1. For this purpose, the bottom wall 3 includes a horizontally extending vertical strip 40 which comprises an upwardly directed supporting strip 41. The vertical strip 40 is located at the front end of the bottom wall 3. A gripping strip 42 rests on the supporting strip 41. The gripping strip 42 has a groove on its underside, into which the supporting strip 41 engages with its upper end. The gripping strip 42 is releasably connected with the housing 20 of the picking unit 9 by screw bolts. The connecting point is located on the top side of the housing 20. The screw bolts extend in vertical direction. The vertical strip 40 can include a lower strip which is directed downwards. This strip and the supporting strip 41 can form a dovetail guide.On the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1 there is furthermore provided a horizontally extending horizontal strip 43. The horizontal strip 43 is located on the underside of the bottom wall 3. It comprises a rearwardly directed fixing strip 44. The end of the fixing strip is enclosed by a gripping strip 45 which for this purpose includes a corresponding groove. The gripping strip 45 is connected with the housing 20 of the picking unit 9 by screw bolts. The connecting point is located at the rear upper end of the housing 20. The screw bolts extend in horizontal direction.For assembly of a picking unit 9 the gripping strip 42 can be connected with the housing 20. The unit produced thereby can be hung into the supporting strip 41. Subsequently, the housing 20 can be pivoted about the supporting strip 41 in anti-clockwise direction, until the position shown in FIG. 5a is reached, at which the rear upper end of the housing 20 rests against a stop 46 which is located in front of the fixing strip 44. In this position, the gripping strip 45 can be positioned from the rear and be fixed at the housing 20 by the screw bolts.In the housing 20 the drives for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13, the cutting knives 17 of the horizontal chopper 16 and the cutting knives 19 of the vertical chopper 18 are arranged. The input shaft 50 drives the drive for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the input shaft 51 the drive for the draw-in chains 13, and the input shaft 52 the drives for the cutting knives 17 of the horizontal chopper 16 and the cutting knives 19 of the vertical chopper 18.FIGS. 6 and 7 show the drive of the input shafts 50, 51, 52. For this purpose, a primary gear 53 is provided. The primary gear 53 is arranged behind the side wall 2 of the frame 1. It is attached to a front side of the frame 1, namely to the side box 4. The attachment of the primary gear 43 is effected on the side wall of the side box 4 directed to the inside.The primary gear 53 is driven by an input shaft 54. The input shaft 54 extends behind the side wall 2 of the frame 1 in horizontal direction. It is connected with a drive of the combine-harvester. The three output shafts 55, 56, 57 of the primary gear 53 likewise extend in horizontal direction. They surround the input shaft 54.By the output shafts 55, 56, 57 of the primary gear 53 belt drives are driven, which are located in the side box 4. The output shafts of these belt drives are connected with the input shafts 50, 51, 52 for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19. By the primary gear 53, which is designed as four-speed manual transmission with three output stages, the input shafts 50, 51, 52 and hence the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 can be driven independently. The drives for the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 are adjustable independently. It thereby is possible to adapt the speeds of the draw-in rollers 26, 27, the draw-in chains 13 and the cutting knives 17, 19 to the harvesting conditions and/or the different varieties and stocks. The adjustment of the drives can be effected centrally at the primary gear 53.The input shafts 50, 51, 52 extend below and in front of the bottom wall 3 of the frame 1. Furthermore, the input shafts 50, 51, 52 of adjacent picking units 9 are connected with each other. At each end of the frame 1 a side box 4 with a primary gear 53 and belt drives is arranged. The picking units 9 on the left half of the frame 1 are driven by the primary gear 53 on the left side box 4, the picking units 9 on the right half of the frame 1 by the primary gear 53 on the right side box 4.
